ALL RIGHT, WELCOME
TO THE TUESDAY JULY JUNE 17TH,
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE REGULAR
MEETING OF THE AND PLANNING
COMMISSION FOR DETAILED
INFORMATION AND MEETING
PROCEDURES, PLEASE REVIEW THE
FULL PRINTED MEETING AGENDA
PROVIDED DEPUTY MANAGER KELLY,
WILL YOU PLEASE CALL THE ROLL?
>> ABSOLUTELY.
NOTING THAT THERE ARE THREE
PLANNED ABSENCES THIS EVENING
WITH ADVANCE NOTICE FOR
COMMISSIONER APRON'S MILLS AND
NORTON COMMISSIONER HERE
COMMISSIONER WISCH HERE
COMMISSIONER EXCUSE ME
HAMMERSCHMIDT HERE COUNCIL
MEMBER DISH HERE, COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE HERE AND COMMISSIONER
ADAMS HERE YOU HAVE A QUORUM.
>> GREAT, THANK YOU.
MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO APPROVE
THE AGENDA MOVE BY COMMISSIONER
WEATHERBEE SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER WEISS.
ALL THOSE IN FAVOR SAY AND HE
OPPOSED SEEING NONE MOTION
CARRIES MAY I HAVE A MOTION TO
APPROVE THE MINUTES OF THE JUNE
3RD TWENTY TWENTY FIVE MOVE BY
MR. HAMMERSCHMIDT SECONDED BY
COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
>> IS THERE ANY DISCUSSION
OF THE MINUTES DENHA ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR SAY AY AY ANY OPPOSE
SEEING ON MOTION PERRY'S OK
WE'RE GOING TO GO ON REPORTS TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION AND
WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS.
>> WE WILL START WITH COUNCIL
MEMBER DESH.
THANK YOU.
CITY COUNCIL WAS BUSY LAST
NIGHT.
IT APPROVED OUR MODIFICATIONS
TO LAND DIVISIONS AND TO
DEVELOP OUR SPONSORED COMMUNITY
MEETINGS TO PUBLIC NOTICES AND
PUBLIC HEARINGS AND THE SALE
CHURCH REZONING FROM TOWNSHIP
TO OUR FOURTH YEAR WITH
CONDITIONS PASSED ON FIRST
READING THE COUNCIL HAS NOT YET
BEEN ASKED TO VOTE ON THE SITE
PLAN ONLY THE REZONING BUT THEY
ARE EXCITED ABOUT THE SITE PLAN
BECAUSE DETAILS WERE SHARED.
THANK YOU BUT THAT WILL GO TO
MANAGER KELLY.
>> UH, YES.
ALSO NOTING THAT THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT FOR SIX
THIRTY S ACTUALLY WAS APPROVED
YESTERDAY EVENING.
>> I WOULD LIKE TO SHARE ONLY
THAT THERE WERE A NUMBER
OF COMMUNICATIONS AT THE
THURSTON ELEMENTARY SITE IN
YOUR PACKET AND I KNOW THAT
THERE ARE A LOT OF COMMUNITY
MEMBERS WHO ARE INTERESTED IN
FOLLOWING ALONG WITH THAT AND I
WANTED TO CLARIFY THAT THE
PLANNING COMMISSION DOES NOT
HAVE A ROLE IN THE REVIEW
OF ANN ARBOR PUBLIC SCHOOL
PROPERTY SO ANY CONSIDERATION
OF THE USE OF PUBLIC RIGHT
OF WAY FOR THIS LOCATION IS
GOING TO BE CONSIDERED BY
PUBLIC SERVICES AND THEY CAN BE
CONTACTED AT ENGINEERING AT
8:00 TO GOV. DOUG.
>> ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU.
DO
ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS HAVE
ANYTHING TO REPORT LIAISON'S OR
C?
NO.
>> GOT IT.
ALL RIGHT.
WRITTEN COMMUNICATIONS ARE
INCLUDED IN TODAY'S PACKET.
WHAT A MOVE ON TO PUBLIC
COMMENT.
THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY FOR
INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP THE
THREE MINUTES ON ISSUES THAT
ARE NOT LISTED AS A PUBLIC
HEARING AND FOR PURPOSES
OF CLARIFICATION WE WILL HAVE A
PUBLIC HEARING FOR BARBASOL SO
WELCOME.
>> HI I'M TED RHODES.
I LIVE AT FOUR H.
S FIRST STREET AND I HAVE
REVIEWED THE SECOND DRAFT THE
COMPREHENSIVE PLAN.
I WAS VERY DISMAYED THAT
MAESTRE AND SEVERAL STREETS IN
MY AREA OF THE OLD WEST SIDE
BETWEEN WILLIAM AND JEFFERSON
ARE DESIGNATED AS TRANSITION.
THERE'S BEEN OVERWHELMING
OPPOSITION TO THE TRANSITION
ZONING IN THE OLD WEST SIDE AND
YOU DID KIND OF PARROT BACK A
LITTLE BIT BUT YOU RETAINED IN
THIS PARTICULAR AREA FOR NO
APPARENT REASON.
THE FIRST STREET IS
PARTICULARLY TROUBLING FOR ME.
I MOVED TO THIS AREA IN ONTO
THAT TREE IN 2006.
I DID MY RESEARCH AT THE TIME
KNOWING THAT THE APARTMENTS IF
THEY WERE TO CHANGE WERE
LIMITED TO THIRTY FEET.
BUT NOW WITH YOUR TRANSITION
ZONING WHO KNOWS WHERE THEY'LL
GO AND YOU ALSO CHANGED THE
AREA THAT IS NOW A PARKING LOT
AT THE CORNER OF OF FIRST
STREET AND WILLIAM INTO HUB
ZONE EIGHT THAT WAS SUPPOSED TO
BE PARKLAND THERE WAS SUPPOSED
TO GO TO PARKLAND WHEN WE HAD A
LINEAR PARK TO GO FROM PARKLAND
TO WHAT A 20 STOREY BUILDING IS
RIDICULOUS.
YOU'RE BREAKING ARE PROMISES
MADE TO THE PEOPLE OF THIS AREA
.
IT'S IS ABSOLUTELY RIDICULOUS
WHAT'S GOING ON THE WHOLE AREA
IF YOU THINK ABOUT THE AREA, IF
YOU KNOW THIS AREA, THERE'S A
NATURAL TRANSITION, ASHLEIGH.
MEUS TRANSITIONS FROM MAIN
STREET TO ASHLEY ASHLEY IS THE
LOGICAL PLACE TO START THE
RESIDENTIAL ZONING HERE.
BUT YOUR INSISTENCE ON TRYING
TO GET MORE AND MORE DENSITY
AND MORE AND MORE OF A FREE FOR
ALL EVERYWHERE IS YOU HAVE THIS
TRANSITION BETWEEN WILLIAM AND
JEFFERSON ALL THE WAY TO SCHOOL
.
>> IT'S RIDICULOUS.
IT'S NOT NECESSARY.
AND I PLEAD WITH PLEASE PLEASE
CHANGE THIS.
IT IS SO OUT OF CHARACTER WITH
WITH THE WEST SIDE WHAT YOU
ALREADY DID IT'S SIX THIRTY
SOUTH ASHLEY IS ALSO
RIDICULOUS.
IT'S NOT IN KEEPING WITH THE
COMMERCIAL SENSE OF BUILDINGS
IN THE OLD WEST SIDE.
IT'S NOT CONSISTENT WITH WHAT
QADERI JEFFERSON STREET MARKET,
ARGUS OR A BUNCH OF PLACES THAT
ARE NO LONGER BUSINESSES THAT
WE'RE ALL SINGLE STORY AND YOU
APPROVE THIRTY.
WHEN IS THIS GOING TO STOP?
WHEN ARE YOU GOING TO START TO
REALLY RESPECT THE WILL OF THE
PEOPLE AND THE REQUIREMENTS
OF THE HISTORIC DISTRICTS?
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
THANK YOU.
DO WE HAVE ANYONE ELSE I WOULD
LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS TIME THAT
IS PRESENT?
>> MR. WESTFALL.
HELLO.
GOOD EVENING COMMISSION KIRK
WESTFALL THIRTY FIVE OR FIVE
CHARTER PLACE VERY HAPPY THAT
THE THE DRAFT IS LIVING AND
EVOLVING AND INCORPORATING LOTS
OF FEEDBACK APPARENTLY SO
THAT'S EXCITING TO SEE IT MOVE
ALONG I OTHER THAN SOME
QUIBBLES WITH SOME OF THE NEW
LANGUAGE THAT'S BEEN INSERTED
WITH SOME OF THE DEFINITIONS
ESPECIALLY UP FRONT WHICH I
OUTLINED IN MY SUBMISSION
TONIGHT, I THINK THE BIGGEST
REMAINING THING TO TO DEAL WITH
IS THE MAP.
SOME OF SOME OF THE AREAS ARE A
LITTLE HARD TO SEE SO I
APOLOGIZE IN ADVANCE IF I GAVE
SOME EXAMPLES IN MY MEMO THAT
MAY NOT BE 100 PERCENT ACCURATE
BUT I DID THE BEST I CAN.
I APPRECIATE THAT YOU ALL ASKED
STAFF FOR THE CONSULTANT TO
INSERT THE CURRENT ZONING MAP
KIND OF ALONGSIDE THE THE
PROPOSED DRAFT MAP.
AND I THINK WHAT WHAT THAT HAS
HIGHLIGHTED FOR ME AND I IN MY
SUBMISSION I LITERALLY PUT THEM
SIDE BY SIDE AND DREW SOME
CIRCLES ON THE THE PROPOSED
LAND USE PLAN MAP WHERE PARCELS
THAT ARE CURRENTLY ZONED
MULTIFAMILY ARE NOW ZONED
RESIDENTIAL OR LOW RISE AND AND
REMINDS ME OF THE DISCUSSION
YOU GUYS HAD ABOUT WOODBURY
GARDENS AND HOW I THINK A LOT
OF THESE AGING COMMUNITIES
CONDO CO-OP RENTAL COMMUNITIES
ARE GOING TO BE LOOKING AT SOME
OF THE EMPTY SPACES AND I CAN
SPEAK FOR MYSELF WHERE I USED
TO LIVE IN GETTY'S LAKE THERE'S
SOME EXTRA LAND, YOU KNOW, SOME
UNUSED LAND ON THE PROPERTY AND
I REMEMBER THE BOARD JOKING,
YOU KNOW, TEN YEARS AGO SAYING
OH, MAYBE WE'LL SELL IT OFF FOR
SOME LAKE MANSIONS BECAUSE YOU
KNOW, MAINTENANCE COSTS ARE
GOING UP.
THE COST OF REDOING THE ROADS
AND ALL THESE FIXED COSTS ARE
HITTING COMMUNITIES WITH
INFLATION AND I THINK PEOPLE
ARE GOING TO BE LOOKING AT
SELLING OFF SOME SOME OF THEIR
EXCESS LAND.
SO I THINK FOLKS LIKE ARROWOOD
OR ANY OTHER COMPLEX SHOULD
HAVE THE OPTION TO DO WHAT
WOULD VERY GARDENS IS DOING AND
USE EARN SOME MONEY FROM THERE
UNUSED LAND AND HELP HELP OUT
THEIR RESIDENTS IN THAT WAY AND
ALSO PROVIDE HOUSING.
SO I THINK I WOULD JUST ASK YOU
TO LOOK THAT MAP AND MAYBE FOR
NEXT TIME POTENTIALLY FLIP IT
AND JUST HAVE ALL OF THE
MULTIFAMILY INDICATED AS
TRANSITION AND THEN SEE IF THAT
MAKES SENSE RATHER THAN TRYING
TO FIGHT FOR, YOU KNOW, CURRENT
MULTIFAMILY TO GO INTO
TRANSITION, TRANSITION IS GOING
TO TAPER VERY GENTLY TO FAMILY
NEIGHBORS SO IT SHOULDN'T BE
THAT MUCH OF A POLITICAL
PROBLEM EITHER.
THANKS FOR YOUR TIME.
>> DO WE HAVE ANYONE ELSE
PRESENT THAT LIKE TO SPEAK THE
SAME?
DO WE HAVE ANY CALLERS
THERE'S
ONE HENDRY'S MARY DURFEE
PERMISSION TO ADDRESS PLANNING
PERMISSION FOR THREE MINUTES
YOU MAY NEED TO UNMUTED
YOU
HAVE PERMISSION TO SPEAK
.
I FINALLY GOT IT.
YES.
YEP.
WE CAN HEAR YOU.
>> OK, THANK YOU SO MUCH FOR
YOUR PATIENCE.
I WANTED TO THANK YOU FOR
ACKNOWLEDGING THE CONCERNS THAT
WERE RAISED AND INCLUDING THEM
IN THE PLAN BUT I ALSO WANTED
TO THANK YOU FOR INCLUDING
OBJECTIVES AND METRICS IN THE
THREE CATEGORIES OF HOUSING AND
NEIGHBORHOOD ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT INFRASTRUCTURE LIKE
THE COMMISSION I'M VERY
CONCERNED ABOUT THE
DEMOGRAPHICS THAT SHOW A
DECREASE NUMBER OF RESIDENTS IN
THE ZERO TO EIGHTEEN AND THIRTY
FIVE TO SIXTY FOUR CATEGORIES.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE A METRIC
THAT SHOWS THAT THE VARIOUS
INITIATIVES ARE HOPEFUL THAT
ARE HOPEFULLY SUCCESSFUL IN
GROWING THIS GROUP FOR EXAMPLE
A METRIC THAT SHOWS THE CHANGES
IN THE VARIOUS AGE GROUPS SO
THAT WE KNOW THAT THIS IS
WORKING.
I'D ALSO LIKE TO PROPOSE
SEVERAL OTHER POSSIBLE METRICS
.
CURRENTLY THE METRICS ALL FOCUS
ON THE DESIRED CHANGES TO THE
CITY.
HOWEVER, AS I READ THROUGH THE
REPORT, RESIDENTS HAVE RAISED
CONCERNS TO IDENTIFY ABOUT
MAINTAINING SPECIFIC
CHARACTERISTICS OF THE CITY,
MAKING SURE THAT THESE
IDENTIFIED CONCERNS ARE ALSO
EXPLICITLY IDENTIFIED AND
ENUMERATED IN THE METRICS AND
OBJECTIVES AS CRITICAL.
I IDENTIFIED A FEW AND I WILL
BE SENDING THIS IN WRITING TO
THE COMMISSION IN HOUSING AND
NEIGHBORHOODS THERE WAS A
CONCERN THAT HOUSING GEARED
TOWARDS STUDENTS HAVE HIGH
BEDROOM ACCOUNTS THAT ARE NOT
SUITABLE OR CONVERTED FOR OTHER
HOUSEHOLD TYPES A POSSIBLE
METRIC TO LAY THESE CONCERNS
WOULD BE WHAT ARE THE BEDROOM
TOWNS OF NEW DEVELOPMENTS TO
PEOPLE EXPRESS CONCERNED WITH
THE IMPACT OF INCREASED DENSITY
ON GREEN SPACES AND THE BUILT
FORM POTENTIAL METRIC COULD BE
NEIGHBORHOOD SATISFACTION
METRIC WHICH OF COURSE IS
ALWAYS TRICKY WITH BUILT FORM
UNDER ECONOMIC DEVELOPMENT.
I WAS VERY INTERESTED IN THE
CONCERN ABOUT AND I'M JUST
BASICALLY READING THESE
CONCERNS VERBATIM FROM THE
REPORT THERE'S CONCERN ABOUT
BUSINESS DISPLACEMENT
PARTICULARLY WITH ONGOING
DOWNTOWN DEVELOPMENT, THE
INTRODUCTION OF NEW MIXED USE
AREAS.
THERE'S PARTICULAR CONCERN FOR
PROTECTING LOCAL MINORITY AND
IMMIGRANT OWNED STOREFRONTS.
THESE EFFORTS ARE SEEN AS
ESSENTIAL TO MAINTAINING A CITY
THAT IS BOTH AFFORDABLE AND
EQUITABLE.
I'M WONDERING ABOUT A METRIC
THAT COULD BE CATEGORIZING
BUSINESSES BY SIZE AND
OWNERSHIP AND TRACKING THOSE
NUMBERS RATHER THAN JUST
LOOKING AT THE NUMBER
OF BUSINESSES AND LASTLY UNDER
INFRASTRUCTURE IT SAYS THE CITY
WILL NEED TO INVEST IN WATER
DISTRIBUTION CONVEYANCE
CAPACITY IMPROVEMENTS TO
SUPPORT MORE HOUSEHOLDS
FOCUSING ON ADDITIONAL CAPACITY
WHERE THE HIGHEST DENSITY WILL
BE ENCOURAGE METRICS TO FOLLOW
COULD BE GROWTH WITHOUT AN
INCREASE IN SEWER OVERFLOWS OR
WITHOUT INCREASE IN WATER
SHORTAGES WHICH I DON'T A CASE
BUT OR WITHOUT FLOODING ETC.
YOU WOULD KNOW THE METRICS
BETTER THAN I WOULD BUT
MEASURED BY NEIGHBORHOOD WHEN I
LISTENED TO YOUR INFRASTRUCTURE
MEETING I DON'T KNOW A WEEK OR
TWO AGO IT WAS ALL BASED ON THE
LARGE ASPECT OF INFRASTRUCTURE.
IN OTHER WORDS THE CAPACITY
OF THE CITY I'M SORRY YOUR TIME
HAS ELAPSED.
THANK THANK YOU FOR THEIR HANDS
RAISED.
OK, GOING TO A SECOND
OK WITH
THAT WE WILL CLOSE PUBLIC
COMMENT.
>> WE'RE GOING TO WANT TO
COMMISSIONER RESPONSE IS AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR THE COMMISSION
TO RESPOND TO OR ADDRESS PUBLIC
COMMENT.
WE HAVE ANY COMMISSIONERS OK
WITH THAT?
WE'RE GOING TO MOVE ON TO
PUBLIC HEARINGS SCHEDULED FOR
THE NEXT BUSINESS MEETING.
DEPUTY MANAGER KELLY FOR YOUR
NEXT REGULAR MEETING.
THERE ARE TWO PUBLIC HEARINGS
SCHEDULED.
THIS IS FOR THE JULY FIRST
MEETING.
NINE HUNDRED BRIARWOOD CIRCLE P
TWENTY FOUR DASH ONE ZERO ZERO
ZERO EIGHT.
THIS IS A SITE PLANNED FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL
REVISION OF THE PREVIOUSLY
APPROVED SITE PLAN HESP TWENTY
THREE DEATHS ZERO ZERO ZERO
FIVE FOR THE LARGE FORMAT
RETAILER A REDUCTION
OF BUILDING SIZE FROM ONE ONE
HUNDRED THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT TO
LEVEL BUILDING TO A SIXTY
THOUSAND SQUARE FOOT ONE LEVEL
BUILDING WITH AN ADJACENT
FIFTEEN THOUSAND EIGHT HUNDRED
AND EIGHTY SQUARE FOOT SMALL
RETAIL BUILDING AND OTHER
CHANGES TO THE SITE ARE
PROPOSED.
THE ZONING IS C TO BE BUSINESS
SERVICE DISTRICT IN THE FOURTH
WARD AND THE SECOND HEARING IS
TO AVOID S UNIVERSITY AS B
TWENTY FOUR DASH ZERO ZERO TWO
NINE.
THIS IS A SITE PLAN FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL
AND UPDATE TO THE ORIGINAL SITE
PLAN THAT INCORPORATES THE
ADJACENT PARCEL LOCATED AT 610
SOUTH FOREST AVENUE.
THE PROJECT WILL BE AN EIGHTEEN
STOREY MIXED USE RESIDENTIAL
AND RETAIL TOWER.
THE PROPOSED DEVELOPMENT
CONSISTS OF TWO HUNDRED AND
FIFTY NINE RENTAL APARTMENT
UNITS AND FIVE THOUSAND ONE
HUNDRED AND TWENTY SQUARE FEET
OF GROUND LEVEL COMMERCIAL
TENANT SPACE.
THE BUILDING INCORPORATES
STORAGE FOR FIFTY TWO BAGS AND
EIGHTY THREE GARAGE PARKING
SPACES, PARKING AND LOADING
HAVE BEEN CONCEALED OFF THE
SOUTH SIDE ALLEY THIS IS ON D
ONE DOWNTOWN CORE DISTRICT IN
THE THIRD WARD.
>> THANK YOU.
THAT TAKES US RIGHT ALONG TO
UNFINISHED BUSINESS.
THIS IS TWO EIGHT FOUR OR FIVE
SOUTH STATE STREET AND FOR THIS
I'M GOING TO RECUSE MYSELF ON
THIS MATTER GIVEN MY PREVIOUS
EMPLOYER PETITIONING THIS I AM
GOING TO HAND IT OVER TO
COMMISSIONER WISCH AND VICE
CHAIR.
>> THANK YOU.
I WOULD LIKE TO ALSO REMIND THE
COMMISSIONERS WHO STAY THAT
FIVE AFFIRMATIVE VOTES ARE
REQUIRED TO APPROVE THIS ITEM.
SO IF YOU DO HAVE CONCERNS
ABOUT THE REPRESENTATION
OF VOICES OR YOU HAVE ANY
HESITATION, MAKE SURE TO KEEP
THAT IN MIND AS YOU MOVE TOWARD
YOUR VOTE.
THANK YOU, MANAGER KELLY.
SO WE ARE AN EIGHT DAY
UNFINISHED BUSINESS TWO EIGHT
FOUR OR FIVE SOUTH STATE ALSO
KNOWN ARBOR S SITE PLAN FOR
PLANNING COMMISSION APPROVAL.
THIS IS A PROPOSED SITE PLAN TO
CONSTRUCT APPROXIMATELY 15 NEW
BUILDINGS IN A DOWNTOWN STYLE
DEVELOPMENT AROUND TWO EXISTING
BUILDINGS AT SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN
AND SEVEN EIGHT NINE EAST
EISENHAUER BOULEVARD.
NEW BUILDINGS INCLUDE A HOTEL,
EIGHT RESIDENTIAL BUILDINGS,
RESTAURANT BUILDINGS AND THREE
PARKING STRUCTURES.
THE DEVELOPMENT PROPOSES NINETY
THREE THOUSAND FIVE HUNDRED
SQUARE FEET OF NEW COMMERCIAL
SPACE APPROXIMATELY ONE HUNDRED
AND FIFTY HOTEL ROOMS
APPROXIMATELY EIGHT HUNDRED AND
FORTY APARTMENTS OR CONDOMINIUM
UNITS INCLUDING TWO HUNDRED AND
THIRTY AFFORDABLE UNITS.
THE APPROXIMATELY EXCUSE ME AND
APPROXIMATELY TWO THOUSAND FIVE
HUNDRED VEHICLE PARKING SPACES
CONSTRUCTION IS PLANNED AND
FIVE PHASES.
THE TWENTY THREE AND A HALF
ACRE SITE IS ZONED ONE TRANSIT
CORRIDOR DISTRICT STAFF
RECOMMENDATION FOR THE
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION IS
APPROVAL AND STAFF
RECOMMENDATION WITH THE SITE
PAN IS APPROVAL WITH CONDITIONS
AND WE WILL START WITH HEARING
FROM THE PETITIONER.
>> THANK YOU.
GOOD EVENING.
PLANNING COMMISSION.
WE'RE VERY EXCITED TO BE HERE
TONIGHT WITH YOU AGAIN TO
REVIEW ARBER S PROJECT.
MY NAME IS TOM COLVARD.
I'M WITH MIDWESTERN CONSULTING.
I'M HERE TONIGHT WITH DEVELOPER
REPRESENTATIVES FROM THE
CRAWFORD HOYING TEAM JEREMIAH
THOMAS, JEFF ROBERTS AND TODD
JOHNSON.
I'M HERE WITH REPRESENTATIVES
FROM OXFORD JEFF HOFFMAN AND
ANDY ANDRE.
I'M HERE WITH DESIGN TEAM
MEMBERS FROM LADAK AND SERGEANT
ANDERSON, THE ARCHITECT JORDAN
SEBASTIAAN, THE LANDSCAPE
ARCHITECT WHO'S ON LINE
PARTICIPATING AND THEN FROM
MIDWESTERN CONSULTING WE ALSO
HAVE TED HIRSCH, OUR CIVIL
ENGINEER AND MIKE COOL, THE
TRAFFIC ENGINEER PARTICIPATING
VIRTUALLY
SINCE OUR LAST
MEETING WE'VE BEEN WORKING VERY
COLLABORATIVELY WITH CITY STAFF
AND STAKEHOLDERS TO IMPROVE THE
PROJECT.
THERE HAVE BEEN CONTINUED
COLLABORATION AND DISCUSSIONS
REVOLVING AROUND THE PARKING
STRUCTURES OF TRANSPORTATION
OF PEDESTRIAN CIRCULATION, THE
SUSTAINABILITY SOLID WASTE
LANDSCAPE CONFORMANCE THE
DESIGN TEAM HAD SUBMITTED
REVISED PLANS MAY TWENTY SECOND
AND ALSO SUBMITTED REQUEST FOR
LANDSCAPING MODIFICATIONS.
THESE REVISED PLANS AND
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION REQUEST
HAVE BEEN REVIEWED BY STAFF AND
COMMENTS PROVIDED BY PLANNING,
ENGINEERING, FIRE SOLID WASTE
AND TRANSPORTATION.
AND THIS LEADS US TO OUR
RESPECTFUL REQUEST TONIGHT FOR
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL OF THE
SITE PLANNING APPROVAL OF THE
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATIONS.
BUT BEFORE WE GET INTO THAT,
LET'S TALK ABOUT BEFORE WE GET
TO THE PLANNED CHANGES, LET'S
TALK A LITTLE BIT ABOUT THE
DEVELOPMENT PLAN FOR THE
PROJECT.
KIND OF A REFRESHER WE'RE 17
STRUCTURES AND SEVEN BLOCKS
CREATING URBAN FABRIC WHERE
THERE HADN'T BEEN URBAN FABRIC.
THESE NEW FACILITIES ENCIRCLE A
CENTRAL PUBLIC PLAZA WHICH WILL
ACT AS THE HEART OF THIS NEW
NEIGHBORHOOD WHERE THERE WAS
ONCE TO SEE A PARKING.
THERE WILL BE COMMERCIAL RETAIL
AND OFFICE SPACE AND CIRCLING A
PLAZA.
THIS INCLUDES THREE JEWEL BOX
BUILDINGS FRONTING ONTO THE
PLAZA.
THE PROJECT WILL COMPLETE
CONTAIN A MIX OF HOUSING TYPES
AS I MENTIONED IN SUMMARY
OF OUR PROJECT HERE JUST A
SECOND AGO THE HOTEL THERE WILL
BE A HOTEL ANCHORING THE SITE,
A ONE BUILDING SHOW THERE AT
THE CORNER OF EISENHOWER AND
SOLID STATE STREET AND THEN
WE'RE PROPOSING PEDESTRIAN AND
BIKE LINKAGES WITH CONNECTIONS
TO THOSE LINKS AT OUR PERIPHERY
OF OUR PROJECT AND EMBRACING A
MIX OF TRANSPORTATION AND
OPPORTUNITIES YOU'LL RECALL AT
OUR LAST MEETING SEEING IMAGERY
LIKE THIS FROM THE DESIGN TEAM
THAT DEVELOPED A NUMBER
OF IMAGES SIMILAR THIS IS A
LOOK ACROSS OUR WHAT WE CALL
MAIN STREET ACROSS THE PLAZA
AND TOWARDS THE ONE BLOCK
OF BUILDINGS YOU'LL RECALL WE
TALKED ABOUT PARKING THE
PROJECT WILL INCLUDE THREE
PARKING STRUCTURES INTEGRAL TO
THE DEVELOPMENT WE DISCUSSED
OUR PER UNIT PARKING COUNT
BEING LESS THAN THAT OF OTHER
PROJECTS MOBILITY BIKES,
PEDESTRIANS AND TRANSIT IS VERY
IMPORTANT.
THE PROJECT WE ARE SHARING IN
THIS GRAPHIC THE CONNECTIONS
OF VARIOUS TYPES
OF TRANSPORTATION MODES
INCORPORATED INTO THE PROJECT.
SOME OF THESE WERE ADDED OR
DEFINED IN OUR LAST MIDDLE.
WE ARE FILLING GAPS THE
PEDESTRIAN CONNECTIVITY WITH
SIDEWALKS PROPOSED AROUND THE
DEVELOPMENT AROUND THE
DEVELOPMENT BLOCKS CONNECTING
WALKS ALONG SOUTH STATE STREET
CONNECTING WALKS TO EAST
EISENHAUER AND ADDING BIKE
LANES ALONG BOARDWALK AND
THROUGH OUR SITE IN OUR
NORTHERN ACCESS.
SO WE WILL NOW CONNECT BIKE
LANE FROM BOARDWALK THROUGH THE
SITE AND THEN THROUGH OUR NORTH
ACCESS.
THE PROJECT NOW INCORPORATES
PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS ACROSS
BOARDWALK AT OUR TWO CURB CUTS
TO THE EAST OF THE SITE.
THE DEVELOPER IS AN AGREEMENT
ON THE WEST SIDE OF OUR SITE TO
WORK WITH THE TRANSPORTATION
TEAM AND ADDING A TRAFFIC AND
PEDESTRIAN CROSSINGS ACROSS OUR
STATE STREET TO AID PEDESTRIAN
PERMEABILITY TO THE WEST SIDE
OF SOUTH STATE STREET.
THAT MEANS THERE'LL BE A
CROSSING AT BROOK CROSSING
ARBOR SOUTH AND THEN CROSSING
AT EISENHAUER.
WE CONTINUE TO PROPOSE SPACE
FOR UPGRADES TO THE PUBLIC BUS
TRANSIT ALONG SOUTH STATE
STREET AND EAST EISENHAUER FOR
FUTURE SUPER BUS STOPS WITH US
RECENT SUBMITTAL WE ARE
REQUESTING A LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION SOMETHING WE HAD
NOT DONE WITH OUR PREVIOUS
SUBMITTALS OUR ASK FOR THE
DEVIATION IS A DEVIATION FROM
THE VEHICULAR USE AREA AND
SCREENING SUBSECTION FIVE POINT
TO ZERO POINT THREE BE THE
INTERIOR LANDSCAPE ISLAND AND
VEHICULAR USE AREAS.
THE REASON THE VWA FOR ARBER S
AS DEFINED BY CODE DOES NOT ACT
LIKE A PARKING FIELD BUT WE
HAVE VEHICULAR AND PEDESTRIAN
ACCESS AMENITY SPACE PEDESTRIAN
SPACE AND PARALLEL PARKING.
THIS IS DISSIMILAR TO A
CONVENTIONAL PARKING LOT WHICH
THE ORDINANCE AIMS TO REDUCE
POLLUTION AND THERMAL HEAT
ISLAND EFFECT.
THE PROJECT DOES NOT HAVE
PARKING FIELDS AS YOU CAN SEE
HERE ARE VEHICULAR USE AREAS
IDENTIFIED IN THE GRAY HATCHED
AREA.
IT HAS LINEAR SPACES WITH
ACCESS DRIVES, PARALLEL PARKING
AND AMENITY AND PEDESTRIAN
SPACE.
THIS IS SIMILAR TO PUBLIC ROAD
RIGHT AWAY'S AND PRIVATE ROAD
EASEMENTS.
THE DESIGN TEAM TOOK CUES FROM
THE DENHA DESIGN MANUAL AND WAS
INTENTIONAL AND INCLUDING
AMENITY SPACE PEDESTRIAN SPACE
,PARALLEL PARKING LANDSCAPE
SPACE JUST AS SUGGESTED IN THE
DDA DESIGN MANUAL.
THE SOLUTION OR JUSTIFICATION
FOR THE LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION
TO THAT SUBSECTION FIVE POINT
TO ZERO THREE BE THE INTERIOR
LANDSCAPE ISLANDS AND YOUR USE
AREA.
OUR PROJECT HAS ONE HUNDRED
THOUSAND SIX HUNDRED EIGHTY SIX
SQUARE FEET OF VEHICULAR USE
AREA AS WE HAD HIGHLIGHTED IN
THE PREVIOUS SLIDE THE GRAY
AREA WE'RE SERVING ONE HUNDRED
AND THIRTY FIVE SURFACE PARKING
SPACES WITH US.
SO WHAT'S HAPPENING IS IN ORDER
TO GET VEHICULAR ACCESS THROUGH
OUR SITE TO
THE PARKING
STRUCTURES AND FOR THE PARALLEL
PARKING WE'RE HAVING MORE
ACCESS THAN WE ARE PARKING AND
WHAT YOU MIGHT SEE IN A
TRADITIONAL PARKING LOT WITH
TWO THOUSAND SIX SPACES IS OVER
SEVEN HUNDRED AND EIGHTY
THOUSAND VEHICULAR USE AREA SO
MUCH MORE CONDENSED CENTRALIZED
MASSIVE PAVING OUR PROJECT VIEW
AREA THE ONE HUNDRED THOUSAND
SIX HUNDRED EIGHTY SIX SQUARE
FEET WOULD REQUIRE SIX THOUSAND
SEVEN HUNDRED TWELVE SQUARE
FEET OF ISLANDS AND TWENTY
SEVEN TREES.
WE ARE PROPOSING FOUR THOUSAND
FIVE HUNDRED AND FORTY NINE
SQUARE FEET OF ISLANDS.
TWENTY ONE TREES THOSE ARE THE
DARK BLUE CIRCLE SHOWN ON THIS
GRAPHIC HERE BY BEING
INTENTIONAL, INTENTIONAL AND
THOUGHTFUL WITH THE DESIGN WE
ARE ACCOMPLISHING THE INTENT
OF THE CODE BY INCLUDING SIXTY
ONE ADDITIONAL TREES THE LIGHT
BLUE TREES IN THIS GRAPHIC
ALONG THE ACCESS DRIVES FOR A
TOTAL OF EIGHTY TWO TREES THAT
IS SO WE HAVE SIXTY ONE LIGHT
BLUE TREES AND WE HAVE THE
TWENTY SEVEN V WAY TREES BUT
TOGETHER THERE'S A TOTAL
OF EIGHTY TWO TREES MARKING TO
MEET THE REQUIREMENT OF THE
TWENTY SEVEN TREES.
I'LL ALSO A TO HERE THAT THE
OTHER TREES THAT ARE INDICATED
ON THIS PLAN THE YELLOW
MITIGATION TREES AND BLUE THE
WAY TREES ADDRESS THE TOTAL VVA
AREA OF THE SITE WHEN POSSIBLE.
WE'VE ALSO INCLUDED RAIN
GARDENS IN THE STREET STRAIGHT
IN THE STREETSCAPE AS TO NOT
SORRY WE TAKE THEM WHERE
POSSIBLE.
WE'VE INCLUDED RAIN GARDENS IN
THE STREETSCAPE WHERE IT DIDN'T
CONFLICT WITH PUBLIC UTILITIES
AND EASEMENTS.
SO ONE OF THE CHALLENGES WE
HAVE IS WE HAVE AN EXISTING
SITE WITH EXISTING UTILITIES
AND EASEMENTS AND WE'RE
CHALLENGED BY INCORPORATE THOSE
SPACES FOR THE RAIN GARDENS.
HOWEVER FURTHER OUR PROJECT
DOES INCORPORATE BEST
MANAGEMENT PRACTICES FOR
STORMWATER MANAGEMENT THAT
INCLUDE ELEMENTS THAT TREAT
QUANTITY AND QUALITY
OF STORMWATER THAT INCLUDES
INFILTRATION.
WE HAD A COUPLE OF COMMENTS IN
THE REPORTING THAT CAME BACK TO
THE PLANNING COMMISSION ABOUT
TRANSPORTATION AND A COUPLE
OF THINGS WE WANTED TO POINT
OUT THE WELL THERE WAS A
COMMENT ABOUT MMT FINDING
GENERATION IS UNDERESTIMATED
AND OVERLY DISCOUNTED.
>> OUR STUDY CONTEMPLATES FULL
BUILD OUT OF THE PROJECT OVER A
NUMBER OF YEARS.
OUR INFORMATION IN OUR REPORT
AND OUR TRAFFIC COUNTS WERE
WITH CURRENT OCCUPANCY OF THE
OFFICES THAT EXIST AT NINETY
FIVE PERCENT.
SO WE'RE UTILIZING CURRENT
TRAFFIC COUNTS AND PLANNING FOR
THE FUTURE WITH REGARD TO THE
FULL BUILD OUT OF THE PROJECT.
ANOTHER THING THAT WAS
MENTIONED IN THE TRAFFIC
CONTROL PLAN WAS THAT OUR
REVIEW OF THE PLAN WAS THAT WE
WEREN'T ADDRESSING TRAFFIC
CONTROL MEASURES.
BUT I JUST WANT TO REITERATE
THE PLANS THAT ARE BEFORE YOU
TONIGHT DO INCLUDE INDICATING
THAT THE DEVELOPER IS
INTERESTED IN PARTICIPATING IN
A PROPOSED TRAFFIC SIGNAL
AROUND SOUTH STATE STREET OUT
THEIR MAIN ENTRY THERE THAT
WILL AID IN VEHICULAR TRANSPORT
STATION AND WILL ALSO PROVIDE
THE PERMEABILITY FOR THE
PEDESTRIANS TO CROSS OUT STATE
STREET.
SO WE LOOK FORWARD TO THE
OPPORTUNITY TO CONTINUE THAT
CONVERSATION ABOUT
TRANSPORTATION AND INCLUDE THAT
IN THE DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
I'M SORRY TO INTERRUPT.
I'VE ADDED ANOTHER TEN MINUTES
TO THE CLOCK.
>> DOES THAT SOUND OK, MR. VICE
CHAIR?
YES.
THANK YOU SO MUCH.
I DON'T THINK I'LL LEAVE THE
FULL TEN MINUTES.
WE APPRECIATE IT.
YOU SAW IN THE REPORT STACK
RECOMMENDED CONDITIONAL
APPROVAL THE DEVELOPMENT TEAM
AND DESIGN TEAM RESPECTFULLY
REQUEST THAT CONTINUED APPROVAL
AS NOTED IN THE REPORT
OUTSTANDING COMMENTS OF THE
ENGINEERING REVIEW NUMBER FOUR
TO BE ADDRESSED.
WE'RE CONFIDENT THAT WE CAN
ADDRESS THOSE THROUGH
CONSTRUCTION PLAN A DETAILED
ENGINEERING PROCESS.
THEY WOULD LIKE US TO ADDRESS
SOLID WASTE COMMENTS AS
RECENTLY LAST FRIDAY WE MET
WITH THE SOLID WASTE TEAM AND
DETERMINED THAT WE MAY BE
OVERESTIMATING OUR SOLID WASTE
NEEDS AND AS SUCH WE WOULD BE
LOOKING TO BETTER ADDRESS THAT
WITH A PLAN REVISION THEY HAVE
THAT THEY WOULD LIKE US TO
ADDRESS THE TO THE SATISFACTION
OF THE PLANNING MANAGER AND
FORESTRY COMMENTS REGARDING
NATURAL FEATURES.
WE'VE AS RECENTLY AS THIS WEEK
A COUPLE OF TIMES I SPOKE TO
PLANNING AND FORESTRY AND HAVE
GOOD DIRECTION SO THAT WE CAN
SATISFY THOSE COMMENTS AND THEN
WITH REGARD TO THE MULTIMODAL
TRAFFIC IMPACT ASSESSMENT, WE
AGREE THAT WE WILL CONTINUE TO
WORK.
WE'VE BEEN IN COMMUNICATION
WITH CITY STAFF AND
ADMINISTRATION TO WORK TOWARDS
AN AMICABLE OUTCOME AND CAN
INCLUDE THOSE ELEMENTS IN THE
DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT.
SO THANK YOU FOR YOUR
CONSIDERATION TODAY.
WE LOOK FORWARD TO YOUR
QUESTIONS AND YOUR ACTION.
>> THANK YOU.
WE'LL MOVE NOW TO STAFF
PRESENTATION WITH PLANNER DELIO
.
THANK.
I THINK THAT MR KOVAR DID A
GREAT JOB EXPLAINING THE
BACKGROUND OF THE PROJECT.
OUR STAFF REPORT FOCUSES ON
WHAT'S HAPPENED SINCE OUR APRIL
15TH STAFF REPORT.
AS MENTIONED WE DID RECEIVE
REVISED PLANS AND WE WERE ABLE
TO REVIEW THOSE PLANS OVERALL A
LITTLE CLEANUP IS NECESSARY BUT
THE PLANS DO OR WILL COMPLY
WITH ALL THE STANDARDS
OF APPROVAL FOR SITE PLANS.
WHAT WE FOUND WAS IN OUR
PLANNING REVIEW IT ASSESSES
WITH CONDITIONS, CLARIFICATION
AND SOME CONFIRMATION ON THINGS
RELATED TO NATURAL FEATURES
PRESENT ON THE SITE WE PROPOSED
TO BE IMPACTED IS REQUIRED FOR
THE ACTUAL APPROVED SITE PLANS
SO THAT IS DOCUMENTED
CORRECTLY.
THEY THEY HAVE OVER MITIGATED
AND SO THIS IS WHY WE ARE
PROPOSING CONDITIONAL APPROVAL
IF THEY WE PERHAPS WOULD NOT
HAVE IF THEY HAD UNDOMESTICATED
REGARDING PUBLIC WORKS CLEANUP
ITEMS INCLUDED DEMONSTRATING ON
THE PLANS THE SPACE NECESSARY
FOR SOLID WASTE THEY THEY HAVE
IT JUST NEEDED TO BETTER
INCLUDE SOME BETTER GRAPHICS.
ENGINEERING HAS SOME DETAILED
ITEMS, THINGS ALONG THE LINES
OF CHANGING NOTES AND LABELS
AND ADDING MORE LABELS AND SUCH
AS THE URBAN FORESTRY REVIEW
FOUND THAT THE PROPOSED SITE
PLAN DOES FAIL IN THAT IT DOES
NOT COMPLY WITH THE VEHICULAR
INTERIOR LANDSCAPE ISLANDS
REQUIRED IN VEHICULAR USE AREAS
BUT A LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION
CAN SERVE THAT FUNCTION AND
WITH A LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION
THE PLANS WOULD COMPLY AND THE
FINALLY OUR TRANSPORTATION
ENGINEERS DID LOOK AT THE SITE
PLAN AND THE MTA AND THEIR
REVIEW IS STILL ONGOING.
PRELIMINARY COMMENTS ARE
PROVIDED IN THE STAFF REPORT
AND MR CALVERT MENTIONED THEM
AS WELL.
>> THE THE MTA FOUND THAT THE
NEW GENERATION MAY HAVE BEEN
UNDERESTIMATED OR OVERLY
DISCOUNTED.
THE LEVEL OF SERVICE AT THE
SITE EXITS WOULD BE WELL BELOW
THE ACCEPTABLE THRESHOLDS FOR
DELAY TRAFFIC CONTROL MEASURES
WOULD ADDRESS SOME WOULD
ADDRESS THIS.
I THINK THAT FINAL FINAL
CONTROL MEASURES WOULD BE
REVIEWED AND APPROVED BY
TRANSPORTATION BUT IT SEEMS
LIKE EVERYTHING IS ON THE RIGHT
DIRECTION.
>> THE CRITERIA FOR A REVIEW
OF MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION
IMPACT ANALYSIS IS PROVIDED IN
CODE AND IT STATES THAT PLANS
THAT WILL RESULT IN LOWER
MULTIMODAL LEVELS OF SERVICE
MAY BE DENIED BUT IT DOES NOT
SAY SHOW UNTIL IMPROVEMENTS ARE
SCHEDULED FOR CONSTRUCTION AND
IT SOUNDS THAT WE ARE IN SOME
IMPROVEMENTS MAY BE FORTHCOMING
.
THEIR FINAL COMMENTS ARE,
HOWEVER, PENDING REGARDING
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION.
IT IS PROVIDED IN SECTION 530
POINT ONE THAT MODIFICATIONS TO
CERTAIN PARTS OF SECTION FIVE
TWENTY INCLUDING FIVE TWENTY
POINT THREE DUAL USE AREAS MAY
BE APPROVED AS PART OF A SITE
PLAN APPROVAL.
THIS REQUEST HAS BEEN MADE TO
ADDRESS THE URBAN FORESTRY
NATURAL RESOURCES REVIEW.
IN SUMMARY, I REQUEST THE STAFF
REPORT TALKS ABOUT THE
AFFIRMATION OF THE REQUEST AND
THE ORIGINAL DOCUMENTS WERE
TOUCHED IN THE PACKET MENTIONED
IT REQUESTS MODIFICATION
OF SUBSECTION FIVE TWENTY POINT
THREE B INTERIOR LANDSCAPE
ISLANDS IN VEHICULAR USE AREAS.
>> I THINK THAT MR CALVERT'S
NUMBERS ARE MUCH MORE ACCURATE
THAN MINE AND I THINK THAT
REFLECTS THE ONGOING WORK THAT
HAS BEEN DONE TO THE LANDSCAPE
PLAN.
BUT IN GENERAL THE PAVEMENT
MOST OF THE PAVEMENT ON THE
SITE IS CONSIDERED VEHICULAR
USE AREA.
THEY ARE NOT PRIVATE STREETS.
THEY ARE NOT ALLEYS OR SERVICE
DRIVES.
THEY ARE A BY DEFINITION
VEHICLE USE AREAS.
BUT AS YOU CAN SEE THEY DON'T
LOOK LIKE A TRADITIONAL PARKING
LOT BUT AS A VEHICULAR USE AREA
THEY'RE REQUIRED A CERTAIN
RATIO OF THE INTERIOR LANDSCAPE
ISLANDS AND I THINK WE ALL
PROBABLY KNOW WHAT THOSE MEAN.
THE ISLANDS INSIDE OF A PARKING
LOT OF A GROCERY STORE OR A
SHOPPING CENTER OR MALL THE
ISLANDS ARE SUPPOSED TO BE
ABOUT THE SIZE OF A PART OF A
PARKING SPACE NINE BY EIGHTEEN
AND ONE TREE IS SUPPOSED TO BE
PLANTED IN EACH ISLAND.
>> LARGER PARKING LOTS WITH
MORE AMOUNT OF THESE ISLANDS
AND THEN NEED TO ALSO USE SOME
ISLANDS AS BIO RETENTION AREAS
.
AND AS MENTIONED, THE
REQUIREMENTS ARE INTENDED TO
REDUCE JUST SHADE THE ASPHALT
IT SHADES IT ADDRESSES THERMAL
HEATING OF THE ENVIRONMENT,
REDUCES POLLUTION NEGATIVE
IMPACTS STORMWATER RUNOFF ALSO
MAKES IT LOOK A LITTLE MORE
ESTHETICALLY PLEASING THE SITE
PLAN AND AGAIN MR. COLVARD HAD
BETTER NUMBERS BUT THE SITE
PLAN DOES PROPOSE LANDSCAPE
ISLANDS AND THEY DO PROPOSE A
LOT OF TREES
.
>> THEY JUST DON'T MEET THE
EXACT THE MINIMUM THRESHOLDS
OF NUMBERS REQUIRED.
THE MODIFICATION WOULD BE TO
ALLOW IN SUMMARY FEWER SQUARE
FEET OF ISLANDS TO ALLOW WHAT
THEY HAVE PROPOSED AND THE
REQUIRED NUMBER OF TREES IN
EACH OF THOSE ISLANDS THAT THEY
HAVE PROPOSED AND THEN MORE
TREES TO ESSENTIALLY OFFSET THE
LACK OF ISLAND SQUARE FOOTAGE
OR IMPERVIOUS SURFACE SQUARE
FOOTAGE AND AS MENTIONED THAT
PEOPLE APPLYING THESE NORMAL
REQUIREMENTS IS CHALLENGING.
A LOT OF IT HAS TO DO WITH
THERE ARE NOT MANY PLACES WHERE
YOU CAN PROJECT AN ISLAND.
>> THEY HAVE ADDED THEIR
LANDSCAPE ISLANDS AT EVERY
CORNER PRETTY MUCH.
BUT THE PARALLEL ISLANDS DON'T
THEY DON'T FUNCTION AS ISLANDS
BUT THERE ARE LANDSCAPING
THROUGHOUT THE SITE SO THEY DO
PROVIDE ALL THE SHADINESS
NECESSARY THE AND THE THE
SQUARE FOOTAGE VEHICULE USE
AREA ON THE SITE IS IS
RELATIVELY HIGH BUT IT'S NOT AS
A SEA OF ASPHALT.
IT IS VERY LINEAR.
IT'S NOT VERY WIDE IN THE BIG
PICTURE COMPARED TO THINGS.
SO A TREE HERE IS GOING TO
PERHAPS GO LONGER A LONGER WAY
FOR SHADING AND THEN ONE TREE
IN THE MIDDLE OF A MORE CLASSIC
PARKING LOT.
THE STANDARDS OF APPROVAL FOR
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION ARE THAT
THE MODIFICATION ARE CONSISTENT
WITH THE PURPOSE OF THE
LANDSCAPING SCREENING AND
BUFFERING SECTION THAT THE
ELIGIBILITY AND REQUIRED
CONDITIONS ARE MET AND THEY
HAVE THEY ARE ELIGIBLE BECAUSE
THEY ARE IN A SPECIAL PARKING
DISTRICT TO THE ONE IS
CONSIDERED A SPECIAL PARKING
DISTRICT AND JUSTIFICATION IS
PROVIDED FOR CONSIDERATION AND
WHEN THERE'S A SUMMATION IN THE
STAFF REPORT AS WELL AS THE
ORIGINAL DOCUMENTS HAVE BEEN
PROVIDED SO ALL OF THE
STANDARDS HAVE BEEN MET.
STAFF HAVE PUT FORTH A MOTION
IN THE STAFF REPORT AND IT
ESSENTIALLY RECOMMENDS APPROVAL
OF THE PLANS DATED MAY 22ND
WITH THE LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATIONS AS PROPOSED WITH
FOUR SPECIFIC CONDITIONS
SUBJECT TO VERIFYING THAT THE
COMMENTS ARE RESOLVED AND
DOCUMENTED PURSUANT TO
ENGINEERING SOLID WASTE
PLANNING AND TRAFFIC
TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERING.
>> IF I HAD DO NOT SAY BEFORE
I'LL REPEAT MYSELF THEN WE
RECOMMEND APPROVAL OF THE
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION AND THE
SITE PLAN.
I'M HAPPY TO ANSWER ANY
ADDITIONAL QUESTIONS AND I KNOW
THAT THE MOST THE AUDIENCE IS
ALSO THE DEVELOPMENT REVIEW
TEAM.
>> NO THANK PLAN ARE CLEAR.
WE'LL MOVE NOW TO A PUBLIC
HEARING THIS IS AN OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON THIS ITEM.
WE'LL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
PARTICIPANTS HERE IN THE
CHAMBER AND THEN WE WILL HEAR
FROM REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK REMOTELY PRESS STAR NINE
IF ON PHONE OR USE THE RACE AND
FEATURE IN ZONE FOR PHONE
ACCESS CALL EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN
EIGHT FIVE THREE FIVE TO FOUR
SEVEN AND INNER MEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX.
CITY STAFF WILL IDENTIFY BY THE
LAST THREE DIGITS OF THEIR
PHONE NUMBER OR BY NAME FOR
ZUNE USERS YOU WILL HEAR AN
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE ENSURE
YOU'RE IN A QUIET AREA AND MUTE
ANY BACKGROUND NOISE FOR ALL
PARTICIPANTS WHETHER IN THE
CHAMBER OR ON ZOOM PLEASE STATE
YOUR NAME AND ADDRESS AT THE
BEGINNING OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANY ONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME?
HI MR. GARBA
STAIRWAY'S AND
EVERYONE I'M PLANNING
COMMISSION.
>> I COULDN'T FIND THE MAY
TWENTY SECOND REVISION STREAM
SO I APOLOGIZE IF A FEW OF MY
QUESTIONS REALLY ARE ALREADY
ANSWERED.
I EXPECT IT WASN'T CLEAR TO ME
WHETHER THE PETITIONER FOLLOW
THE EXCELLENT SUGGESTION FROM
THE COMMISSIONER'S WIFE AND
APRON'S TO KEEP MAIN STREET
FREE OF VEHICLE TRAFFIC EXCEPT
FOR EMERGENCY VEHICLES.
I'D LIKE TO SEE THAT AS WELL.
WE LEARNED IN APRIL THAT 30
CONDOS AND THE RESTAURANT WILL
HAVE GAS APPLIANCES STILL THE
CASE.
WHAT ABOUT THE HOTEL THAT
WASN'T ADDRESSED GAS HEAT FOR
COMMON SPACES BUT PARKING IS
THE BIG THING FOR ME.
THIS IS A GREAT DEVELOPMENT BUT
IT'S REALLY OVER PARKING ON A
TRANSIT CORRIDOR PROJECT
SHOULDN'T INCLUDE TWENTY SIX
HUNDRED PARKING SPACES.
>> MR. COVERED FLASHED A SLIDE
INDICATING THAT THE PER UNIT
PARKING IS LESS THAN OTHER
PROJECTS.
BUT I ASSUME THAT I DIDN'T GET
A CHANCE TO REALLY SEE IT.
BUT I ASSUME THAT EXCLUDES THE
FIFTEEN HUNDRED SPACES RESERVED
FOR THE EXISTING OFFICE
BUILDINGS.
SO THE PETITIONER WOULD ARGUE
THAT THEY'RE ONLY ADDING ELEVEN
HUNDRED SPACES TO THE EXISTING
FIFTEEN HUNDRED OR SO BUT I
WALK THE SITE AGAIN FRIDAY
MORNING AT 10:00 A.M. AND I
DIDN'T EXACT COUNT ONE HUNDRED
SIXTY SEVEN PARKED CARS PLUS
SOME CONSTRUCTION TRUCKS THEY
WERE PUTTING IN A NEW CHILLER
SO 11 PERCENT OCCUPIED
BASICALLY A SEA OF EMPTY
PARKING SPACES.
SO LET'S BE GENEROUS AND ASSUME
THE CURRENT OFFICES NEED FOUR
HUNDRED SPACES AT THE PLANT.
>> ELEVEN HUNDRED SPACES EXTRA
FOR THE HOTEL RETAIL AND
RESIDENCE AND I FIGURE THEY
ONLY NEED FIFTEEN HUNDRED MAX
TOTAL.
THE EIGHT WOULD BE TWO PARKING
STRUCTURES LOAN SUPPLY SIXTEEN
FIFTEEN HUNDRED THIRTY FIVE
SURFACE AREA SURFACE SPACES.
I DON'T SEE ANY NEED FOR THE
SPACE TO STRUCTURE WHICH IS
SCHEDULED FOR TWENTY TWENTY
NINE.
I'D LIKE TO SEE THAT LEFT OFF
THIS PLAN IF FOUR YEARS FROM
NOW PETITIONER NEEDS THE EXTRA
PARKING AND THEY CAN COME BACK
THEN FOR APPROVAL SO YEAH I
WOULDN'T I DON'T KNOW THIS IS
NOT LAND USE RELATED BUT THE
CITY WILL OWN THE PARKING
STRUCTURES AND WE'LL RUN THEM
WITH A NEW PARKING AUTHORITY
AND I'M WORRIED IF WE APPROVE
THEM TONIGHT THAT THE DEVELOPER
WILL HAVE NO INCENTIVE NOT TO
BUILD THEM BECAUSE THEY'LL BE
TURNED OVER TO THE CITY AND THE
CITY'S RESPONSIBILITY.
I REALIZED THAT OXFORD'S
CURRENT COMMERCIAL LEASES
GUARANTEE A CERTAIN NUMBER
OF PARKING SPACES FOR OFFICE
TENANTS.
I DON'T SEE THAT AS OUR
PROBLEM.
THEY'RE NOT BEING USED.
IT WAS EASY I THINK FOR OXFORD
TO PROMISE THE SPACES BECAUSE
IT HAD A BASICALLY UNLIMITED
SUPPLY THAT SHOULDN'T BE TRUE
FOR S BOTTOM LINE.
I WOULD LIKE TO SEE THE PLAN AS
GIVEN TO YOU TONIGHT.
IT'S FINE EXCEPT POSTPONE THE C
TO LEAVE THAT AS AN EMPTY
MATTER GREENSPACE FOR THANK YOU
.
THANK YOU MR. GARBER, IS THERE
ANYONE ELSE PRESENT IN THE
CHAMBER WHO WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK
AT THIS TIME SEEING NO ONE PLAN
OR MANAGER EXCUSE ME MANAGER
KELLY, DO WE HAVE ONLINE
PARTICIPANTS CURRENTLY THERE
ARE NO HANDS RAISED.
I THINK MOST OF THE
PARTICIPANTS ARE IN EXTENDED
PART OF THE PROJECT TEAM SEEING
NO ONE.
I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC HEARING
I WILL NOW READ THE MOTION THE
ANN ARBOR CITY PLANNING
COMMISSION HEREBY APPROVES THE
SITE PLAN FOR CP TWO FOUR DASH
ZERO ZERO ONE ONE TWO EIGHT
FOUR OR FIVE S STATE STREET
DATA IT MAY TWENTY SECOND
TWENTY TWENTY FIVE ALSO KNOWN
HARBOR S WITH LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATIONS AS PROPOSED TO
SECTION FIVE POINT TWENTY POINT
THREE VEHICULAR USE AREA
SUBJECT TO ENTERING INTO AND
SATISFYING ALL OF THE TERMS
OF A DEVELOPMENT AGREEMENT WITH
THE CONDITION THAT REVISED
PLANS ARE SUBMITTED WITHIN 30
DAYS THAT DOCUMENT COMPLETION
OF THE FOLLOWING ITEMS ONE ALL
OUTSTANDING COMMENTS ARE
RESOLVED AND DOCUMENTED
PURSUANT TO ENGINEERING REVIEW
NUMBER FOUR TO THE SATISFACTION
OF THE ENGINEERING DIVISION
OF PUBLIC SERVICES TO ALL
OUTSTANDING COMMENTS ARE
RESOLVED AND DOCUMENTED
PURSUANT TO SOLID WASTE REVIEW
NUMBER THREE TO THE
SATISFACTION OF THE SOLID WASTE
MANAGER THREE ALL OUTSTANDING
COMMENTS ARE RESOLVED AND
DOCUMENTED PURSUANT TO PLANNING
REVIEW NUMBER FOUR TO THE
SATISFACTION OF THE PLANNING
MANAGER AND FOR REVISIONS TO
THE MULTIMODAL TRANSPORTATION
IMPACT ANALYSIS MMT A WILL BE
SUBMITTED AND PLANS MODIFY TO
REFLECT OUTCOMES TO THE
SATISFACTION OF THE
TRANSPORTATION MANAGER MOVED BY
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE
SECONDED BY COUNCIL MEMBER
DISH.
WE ARE NOW IN DISCUSSION OF THE
PROPOSED MOTION WHO WOULD LIKE
TO GET A START
?
>> ALL RIGHT, COMMISSIONER
HAMMERSCHMIDT, THANK YOU.
THE FIRST QUESTION IS FOR
STAFF.
HELLO.
>> WHEN WE POSTPONE THIS IN
APRIL TWO MONTHS AGO I JUST
LOOK BACK TO THE STAFF REPORT
BUT I WANT YOU TO JUST VERIFY
IT WAS SO STAFF COULD FINISH UP
SOME REVIEWS IF I REMEMBER
CORRECTLY, WE BOTH DON'T.
>> THERE WERE STILL ONGOING
REVIEWS SO THERE SEEMS LIKE
THERE'S STILL THINGS THAT NEED
TO BE REVIEWED AND FINISHED UP
.
>> MR GIANT, OUR NEW ECONOMIC
DEVELOPMENT WHEN HE WAS HERE
AND TALK TO US A FEW WEEKS AGO
HE MADE THE POINT THAT LIKE
THIS THE CITY OF ADEN HARBOR
HAS A REALLY LONG AND DETAILED
SITE PLAN APPROVALS SO LIKE TWO
MONTHS JUST WENT BY AND WE
STILL AREN'T AT A POINT WHERE
IT'S LIKE A PLAN THAT WE CAN
APPROVE WITHOUT CONDITIONS.
I JUST WANT TO HIGHLIGHT BUT
THAT SEEMS NUTS AND YOU KNOW,
OUR NEW COMPREHENSIVE PLAN HAS
HAD SOME STRATEGIES ACTIONS IN
THERE TO REALLY HELP STREAMLINE
THE DEVELOPMENT PROCESS WHICH I
THINK WILL BE GOOD FOR
SITUATIONS LIKE THIS.
THAT'S ALL THAT MAKES IT OK FOR
THE PETITIONERS.
SO I'M LOOKING AT THE GOOGLE
MAP
, THE EXISTING CONDITIONS
AND THEN I'M LOOKING AT THE
PLAN AND I JUST WANT TO MAKE
SURE I'M ORIENTING MYSELF
CORRECTLY.
>> IT LOOKS TO ME LIKE MOST
OF THESE ROADS GREW UP ST.
CHARLOTTE STREET, THEIR
EXISTING IMPERVIOUS SURFACE.
IS THAT CORRECT?
SO I'M SAYING THAT IS THE
EXISTING SURFACE BEING RETAINED
FOR THE ROADS ON THE NEW ON
THIS NEW PLAN.
I THINK SOME MIGHT HAVE TO BE
EXTENDED TO STAY.
BUT TALK TO ME ABOUT HOW THIS
ROAD NETWORK HOW MUCH OF THIS
ROAD NETWORK EXISTS NOW.
>> SO IF YOU'RE LOOKING AT THE
PLAN AND YOU SEE THE B1 B2
SERIES OF BUILDINGS WHICH IS
THE NORTHWEST CORNER, THERE'S A
SECTION OF ROADWAY THAT GOES
FROM THE INTERSECTION
OF CHARLOTTE AND THOMAS THAT
DOESN'T EXIST TODAY BUT
PROBABLY CONTEMPLATED A ROADWAY
AT SOME POINT IN TIME BECAUSE
OF ITS SIZE AND NATURE AND
FRONTAGE ON SOUTH STATE STREET
ALL THE OTHER AREAS OF THE SITE
HAVE PARKING OR CURRENT
ROADWAYS WITH CURRENT UTILITY
EASEMENTS FOR WATER AND
SANITARY AND STORM SEWERS.
>> SO THESE CURRENTLY PRIVATE
ROADS, THEIR ACCESS DRIVES JUST
LIKE WE'RE PROPOSING.
OK, SO THEY'RE OK.
SO THEY'RE LIKE EASEMENTS
BASICALLY THERE ARE EASEMENTS
FOR ACCESS AND EASEMENTS FOR
UTILITY.
OK, GOT IT.
OK THE NEW SO THE NEW TRAFFIC
LIGHT THAT YOU SHOWED ON THE
PLAN I THINK IS THAT STILL IN
FURTHER CONVERSATION ABOUT OK
THAT IS THEN BEING PROPOSED AT
STATE AND GROW WHICH IS THAT
EXISTING ROAD AREA THAT I CAN
SEE THAT'S JUST NORTH
OF EISENHOWER.
CORRECT.
WHICH IS KIND OF CLOSE TO THAT.
>> CORRECT.
OK IS A ROUNDABOUT HERE NOT
POSSIBLE OR IS THAT NOT
CONTEMPLATED IF I'M JUST
CURIOUS IT IS SO CLOSE TO THE
STATE AND EISENHOWER
INTERSECTION WE HAVEN'T
CONTEMPLATED A ROUNDABOUT FOR
THE OUR MAIN STREET WHICH IS
ALSO GROVE ROAD AND SOUTH STATE
STREET.
WE WERE CONTEMPLATING TRAFFIC
SIGNALS BECAUSE WHEN WE
REVIEWED WITH TRANSPORTATION
TEAM THAT SEEMED TO BE
SOMETHING THAT THEY WERE
LOOKING FOR WHEN WE PUT ON THE
SITE THIS NEW URBAN FABRIC WE
MIGHT ANTICIPATE THAT AT SOME
POINT IN TIME WE COULD HAVE
STREET LIGHTS AT OTHER
INTERSECTIONS TOO.
RIGHT.
JUST LIKE DOWNTOWN EVOLVE WITH
STREET LIGHTS AT THE CORNERS.
BUT A ROUNDABOUT HADN'T BEEN
CONTEMPLATED BEING THAT THE
SIGNALIZATION SEEMS TO BE THE
TYPICAL SOLUTION FOR THOSE
TYPES OF THINGS.
>> OK, I MEAN I DON'T I AM NOT
A TRANSPORTATION TRAFFIC
PERSON.
I DON'T KNOW IF LIKE WHEN THESE
IF THAT IS SOMETHING THAT THE
CITY WOULD THINK ABOUT WHEN
THERE'S THESE DISCUSSIONS
HAPPENING WITH THE DEVELOPER
ALTERNATIVES IT JUST SEEMS SO
CLOSE TO CERTAIN EISENHAUER
LIKE IT.
I DON'T KNOW HOW MUCH STUFF
GETS BACKED UP.
I'M ALSO NOT HERE.
>> I THINK THERE'S ONE IN THE
ROOM.
I WILL JUST SAY THAT THESE
THINGS ARE CONSIDERED AND THIS
IS PART OF THE THE
TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERS
PRELIMINARY THEIR PRELIMINARY
ASSESSMENT IS PROBABLY A
TRAFFIC CONTROL MEASURE IS
NEEDED BUT THEY ACTUALLY DIDN'T
SPECIFY BUT THEY SAID IT'S SOME
SORT OF CONTROL MEASURES NEEDED
BECAUSE OF THE OF THE DELAYS
AND THEY ARE WORKING THROUGH
THIS AND IF PROBABLY IF
APPROPRIATE IF APPROPRIATE, I
THINK THEY WOULD DO IT.
YEAH, I DON'T I DON'T KNOW.
>> OK, I WAS JUST CURIOUS UM
THE BUS STOP ICON THAT YOU WERE
SHOWING RIGHT BY THAT TRAFFIC
ICON IS THAT A NEW BUS STOP?
>> IS THAT A OK?
I JUST DIDN'T SEE IT ON GOOGLE
MAPS.
>> OH SO THE BUS STOP THAT WE
SHOW IN SOUTH STATE STREET
EXISTENCE ON THE NORTH SIDE
OF THE ACCESS POINT WHERE SOUTH
STATE STREET CURRENTLY WE ARE
MOVING TO THAT SAME AREA LIKELY
IT'LL BE ON THE SOUTH SIDE
OF THE INTERSECTION BECAUSE WE
HAVE MORE SPACE THERE KIND OF A
PLAZA AREA NORTH OF THE HOTEL
SO THAT WE COULD HAVE THAT
SUPER STOP IN THE FUTURE.
>> IT'S IT DOESN'T SHOW UNDER
THE MAPS.
>> THANK YOU.
>> OK BUILDING D I'M SWEAR I D
ONE RIGHT TO THE LEFT
OF PLANNED LEFT IS THAT PART
OF THIS PARCEL THAT THE
DIFFERENT PHASE IS THAT SORT
OF GOING TO BE RETAINED AS IT
LOOKS IT'S PARKING CURRENTLY
IT'S CURRENTLY SURFACE PARKING
.
IT IS BEING USED FOR THIS
PROJECT AS A STAGING AREA
CONSTRUCTION THROUGHOUT THE
NUMBER OF YEARS IT'LL LIKE TO
CONSTRUCT IN THE FUTURE.
COULD IT BE DEVELOPED?
>> I'M GUESSING NOT.
OK, AWESOME.
UM AND THEN FOR THE LIKE THIS
WHOLE LIKE LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION VEHICULAR USE
AREAS IS LIKE MAKING MY BRAIN
HURT SO OUR TYPICAL CITY
STREETS ALSO CONSIDERED
VEHICULAR USE AREAS.
NO WHY ARE THESE ARE NOT
TYPICAL CITY STREETS BUT NO
THEY'RE NOT STREETS.
>> THEY'RE NOT PRIVATE EITHER.
THEY ARE THEY'RE ALL CONSIDERED
JUST LIKE PARKING.
THEY'RE ALL CONSIDERED
DRIVEWAYS OR VEHICULAR ACCESS
AS A LIKE THINK THERE MIGHT BE
PUBLIC STREETS.
PUBLIC STREETS SERVE TO ACCESS
LAND AND WE PUT STREET TREES
ALONG PUBLIC STREETS.
THEN YOU HAVE A PRIVATE STREET
AND BY DEFINITION A PRIVATE
STREET SERVES TO ACCESS PARCELS
OF LAND SO IT COULD BE IN A
SUBDIVISION OF SINGLE FAMILY
DETACHED HOMES, PARCELS OF LAND
COULD BE IN AN OFFICE COMPLEX,
MAYBE A SITUATION, MAYBE.
AND THEN WHEN YOU HAVE A SINGLE
SITE SUCH AS THIS THEN YOU HAVE
PARKING LOT AND DRIVEWAYS THAT
ACCESS THE BUILDINGS.
SO IN THIS CASE THE DESIGN IS
LIKE A PRIVATE STREET BUT AND
IT'S STILL A SINGLE PARCEL AND
WHAT THESE STREETS ARE DOING IS
JUST CONNECTING YOU FROM THE
PUBLIC STREET TO THE BUILDING
FRONT DOOR.
THEY'RE NOT THEY'RE NOT
CONNECTING YOU FROM THE PUBLIC
STREET TO A PARCEL AND THEN
FROM THE PARCEL IT'S A LITTLE
DRIVEWAY WE'VE KEPT THE PRIVATE
STREET PART AND WE'VE GONE
RIGHT FROM IT'S A DRIVEWAY SO
TO END BUT THE CODE CLEARLY IS
DESIGNED FOR MORE TRADITIONAL
SHOPPING CENTER PARKING LOT.
NOTHING WRONG WITH THAT.
WE HAVE WE DO THIS WE HAVE TO
DO THIS ON OTHER PROJECTS
SOMETIMES MULTIFAMILY
MULTIFAMILY PROJECTS WHERE
THERE'S A LITTLE BIT OF A ROAD
NETWORK IN THERE TO ACCESS THE
VARIOUS BUILDINGS INSIDE BUT
IT'S VEHICULAR USE AREA.
YOU KNOW, IT COULD BE ALSO WITH
A COMMERCIAL TYPE DEVELOPMENT.
SO WE'RE DOING THE CALCULATIONS
YOU'RE SORT ASSUMING THAT ALL
OF THIS PARTICULAR USE AREA IS
COUNTED AS PARKING KNOW THEY DO
THE CALCULATIONS TO COME UP
WITH THE NUMBER OF STREET
PEOPLE OK, YEAH I MEAN IN THIS
CASE THE BASICALLY THE THERE IS
A HUGE NUMBER HUGE AMOUNT
OF AISLES AND VERY AND VERY FEW
PARKING SPACES.
>> RIGHT.
ACTUALLY ALL AISLES TO ACCESS A
COUPLE PARALLEL A COUPLE
OF NINETY DEGREE PARKING OR
PARALLEL PARKING SPACES AND IN
ANOTHER PROJECT THERE MIGHT BE
A MORE EASY WAY TO INSERT A FEW
MORE ISLANDS IN THEM BUT THESE
ACCESS ISLES PARKING LOT MILES
UNDERNEATH THEM HAVE A LOT
OF UTILITIES AND HAVE A LOT
UTILITY EASEMENTS AND YOU CAN'T
PUT TREES RIGHT ON TOP OF THE
WATER MAIN AND SO ON.
AND SO THEY'VE DONE AS MUCH AS
THEY CAN BUT THEY HAVE
ENCOUNTERED A FEW MORE A FEW
MORE CHALLENGES AND BARRIER
LITORAL BARRIERS THAN SAY A SEA
OF ASPHALT WITHOUT SO MUCH
STUFF UNDERGROUND.
>> SO PRETEND THAT THESE WERE
PUBLIC STREETS WE WOULDN'T
NECESSARILY HAVE THE SAME LEVEL
OF LANDSCAPE.
>> WE HAVE NOT DONE THE MATH
BUT MY GUT SAYS THAT IF THESE
WERE PUBLIC OR PRIVATE STREETS
THEN BECAUSE WE DON'T EVEN
REQUIRE THE ISLAND COMPONENT TO
BE IMPERVIOUS WE WOULD HAVE
ZERO ZERO.
WE MAY HAVE REQUIRED A FEW MORE
TREES BUT THEY ARE NOW
PROPOSING EVEN MORE THAN THAT.
YEAH.
SO WE ARE PROBABLY GETTING
WE'RE GETTING ALMOST THE NUMBER
OF THE SQUARE FOOTAGE
OF IMPERVIOUS SURFACE IN THE
FORM OF ISLANDS AND WE'RE
GETTING MORE TREES THAN A
CLASSIC VEHICULAR USE AREA AND
WE ARE DEFINITELY GETTING MORE
TREES AND THE MERE PRESENCE
OF ISLANDS IF THESE WERE PUBLIC
OR PRIVATE STREETS.
>> THANK YOU.
OK, I THINK I'M GOOD FOR NOW.
I'LL LET OTHER PEOPLE ASK THEIR
QUESTIONS.
I JUST WANT TO IN THE CASE I
DON'T TALK AGAIN LIKE I'M VERY
EXCITED ABOUT THIS PROJECT.
I THINK THIS IS GOING TO DO
REALLY GREAT THINGS FOR THIS
SIDE OF TOWN AND I THINK I'VE
SAID THIS BEFORE BUT I REALLY
HOPE THAT BRIARWOOD KIND
OF FOLLOWS SUIT BECAUSE I THINK
THAT THIS IS THIS HELP IS
CAUSING US TO BE HAVE LIKE A
LOT OF ENERGY DOWN IT THIS SIDE
OF THE CITY.
>> SO THANK YOU.
THANK YOU.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT,
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH.
I WANT TO JUST FOLLOW UP ON
THIS LINE OF ARGUMENT.
I ACTUALLY THOUGHT THE REPORT
WAS REALLY GREAT IN DESCRIBING
THE PROBLEM WITH OUR OUR
LANDSCAPE MODEL AND FITTING TO
THE KIND OF DEVELOPMENT THAT WE
WANTED TO SEE ONE SO I THOUGHT
THAT THAT WAS REALLY
INTERESTING AND I'M GLAD THAT
YOU PULLED OUT THE DETAILS BUT
I'M CURIOUS BECAUSE I I WAS I
WAS FOLLOWING ALONG WITH YOU IN
TERMS OF WHERE YOU WERE TALKING
ABOUT THIS MANY TREES AND THAT
MANY TREES.
BUT THE REPORT HERE SAYS A
TOTAL OF TWO HUNDRED THIRTY
EIGHT TREES ARE PROPOSED TO BE
PLANTED AND I THINK I HEARD YOU
AT TWENTY ONE IN EIGHTY TWO AND
I'M NOT QUESTIONING THE
REPORT'S ACCURACY.
I JUST WANT TO VERIFY WITH YOU
THAT TWO HUNDRED AND THIRTY
EIGHT TREES ARE THAT IS
CORRECT.
WE ARE PLANTING THAT MANY TREES
IN TOTAL SO WE HAVE THE KILLER
USE AREA TREES RIGHT.
WE KNOW THAT TREES THAT WE WANT
TO COUNT TOWARDS VEHICULAR USE
AND THEN WE HAVE MITIGATION
TREES.
THERE ARE A FEW LAMARK TREES
WHERE WE'RE MOVING AND WE'RE
MITIGATING THOSE
AND THEN WE
HAVE PUBLIC STREET TREES BEING
PLANTED.
SO ON THIS GRAPHIC
THE BLUE
TREES ARE THE TREES ON THE
LANDSCAPE MODIFICATION TREES,
THE YELLOW TREES ARE THE
MITIGATION TREES AND THEN I
GUESS IT'S ORANGE IT'S KIND
OF RED HERE BUT ORANGE ON THE
PLAN WOULD BE THE PUBLIC STREET
TREES.
>> THAT'S GREAT.
THANK YOU FOR WALKING ME
THROUGH THAT.
I THINK I DIDN'T I DIDN'T
FOLLOW THE COLOR CODING.
IT'S TERRIFIC.
I MEAN IT'S GREAT TO HAVE THOSE
TREES BECAUSE WE WANT PEOPLE TO
WALK YOU WANT PEOPLE TO WALK
AND YOU WOULD LIKE THEM TO HAVE
SHADE.
>> SO THAT'S GREAT.
COULD YOU REMIND ME WHERE THE
BIKE PARKING IS GOING TO BE?
SO WE HAVE BIKE PARKING THAT'S
IN A NUMBER OF HOOPS THAT ARE
ASSOCIATED WITH MANY OF THE
BUILDING ENTRANCES AND THEN WE
HAVE BIKE PARKING THAT'S ALSO
INCLUDED INTERNAL TO THE
BUILDINGS FOR PEOPLE THAT LIVE
THERE OR WORK THERE.
SO WE BIKE PARKING AND THE
STRUCTURES AND THE BUILDINGS
AND THEN AMONG THROUGHOUT THE
SITE SCATTERED THE ENTRIES.
>> GREAT.
OK, THAT WILL BE NICE FOR WHEN
I VISIT UNLIKE DOWNTOWN WHICH
EXCEPT IN THE SUMMER I FEEL
THAT WE DON'T HAVE ENOUGH BIKE
PARKING IN DOWNTOWN ANN ARBOR.
I'M CONSTANTLY PARKING IT TO
PARKING METER OR A TREE WHICH I
FEEL GUILTY ABOUT.
SO THIS IS TERRIFIC.
LET'S IF I HAD OTHER I FEEL AS
IF AND PERHAPS SOMEONE WILL
WANT TO PRESS HARDER ON THE
CONDITIONS THAT ARE LEFT BUT I
FELT THAT PLANNER DELILLO'S
PRESENTATION COVERED .
I MEAN I WAS KIND OF FLAGGING
THAT PRETTY MUCH THESE ISSUES
ARE RESOLVED OR ON THEIR WAY TO
BEING RESOLVED.
>> AM I INTERPRETING YOU
CORRECTLY SO I SHOULDN'T BE
WORRIED THAT THIS IS TOO
UNFINISHED AND SHOULDN'T WE DO
THINGS WE ARE RECOMMENDING
CONDITIONAL APPROVAL A LITTLE
BIT TO COMMISSIONER HAMMERMAN'S
WE OFTEN REVIEW.
>> SO WHAT YOU ARE SEEING
BEFORE TONIGHT I THINK IS
BEFORE THE FOURTH VERSION
OF THE PLAN.
TYPICALLY YOU WE DO PRESENT A
THIRD VERSION OF PLANS.
THIS PROJECT IS PARTICULAR I
BELIEVE THAT THIS PLAN SET IS
SOMETHING LIKE ONE HUNDRED AND
SIXTY EIGHT PAGES.
IT IS ESSENTIALLY FIVE SITE
PLANS STAPLED TOGETHER I WOULD
SAY THE PLANS ARE WE'RE TALKING
THERE NINETY NINE POINT EIGHT
PERCENT COMPLETE.
WE ARE AT A LEVEL WHERE YOU CAN
LIST A COUPLE OF PAGES THE
EXACT DETAILS CIRCLE THE THINGS
THAT NEED TO BE CORRECTED AND
CIRCLED AND SO IT'S JUST THAT
I'M VERY IMPRESSED ACTUALLY
THAT WE ARE COMING TO YOU WITH
A FOURTH VERSION OF A PLAN SET
THAT IS ONE HUNDRED AND SIXTY
SOMETHING PAGES AND
RECOMMENDING CONDITIONAL
APPROVAL BECAUSE THEY ARE THAT
CLOSE AND WE ARE JUST DOWN TO
ALMOST GRAMMAR AND TYPOS.
>> OK, THANK YOU.
THAT'S WONDERFUL.
AND THEN I JUST WANT TO REPOSE
EACH OF THE QUESTIONS THAT MR.
GARBER ASKED AND INVITE YOU TO
RESPOND.
SO WAS THE SUGGESTION TO KEEP
MAIN STREET ENTIRELY FREE
OF TRAFFIC FOLLOWED?
WILL THE RESTAURANTS HAVE GAS?
HOW ABOUT THE HOTEL?
>> WILL COMMON SPACE BE HEATED
WITH GAS?
WILL YOU NEED TO USE GAS TO
WASH SHEETS AND LINENS?
I THINK I ADDED THAT AND THEN
FINALLY I UNDERSTAND I MEAN I
HOW COME THERE ARE SO FEW CARS
IN THE PARKING IF A OK YEAH
YEAH I'M GOING TO INVITE TEAM
MEMBERS UP HERE TO MAYBE ANSWER
SOME OF THOSE QUESTIONS.
OK, SO BEFORE YOU DO THAT CAN I
JUST ADD ONE MORE OF MR.
GARBER'S QUESTIONS WHICH WAS
ABOUT CONDOS.
SO THERE WAS A COMMENT THAT HE
MADE WHETHER OR NOT THE CONDOS
WERE ALL GAS OR ELECTRIC NOT TO
CORRECT OR JUST TO ADD TO THE
LIST THAT YOU PRESENTED.
SO I'M GOING TO ADDRESS THE
MAIN STREET THAT WE WERE
TALKING ABOUT CLOSING.
SO IT IS THE STREET THAT'S
THROUGH THE PUBLIC PLAZA
BETWEEN THE TWO JEWEL BOXES
WHICH ARE A FOUR TO FIVE.
THERE ARE EXISTING EASEMENTS
THERE WHICH IS ONE OF THE
REASONS WE NEED ACCESS TO THE
MANHOLES, THE SANITARY SEWER
AND SO ON.
WE DO ENVISION THAT AND PLEASE
CORRECT ME IF I'M WRONG IT'S
BEING CLOSED DOWN FOR EVENTS
AND DIFFERENT THINGS THAT WOULD
BE PROGRAMED THROUGH THIS AREA.
WE ALSO USE THAT FOR FIRE
ACCESS THROUGH THE SITE AND FOR
EASE OF GETTING THE LADDER
TRUCK TO A NUMBER OF THESE
BUILDINGS FOR THE ACCESS TO THE
DOLLAR STORIES OF THESE
BUILDINGS.
SO WE DID CONTEMPLATE IT.
WE CAN'T PUT STRUCTURES IN THE
EASEMENTS THAT HAVE FOUNDATION
OR FOOTINGS.
SO WHAT WE ARE PROPOSING TO DO
IS RAISE THAT AREA SO IT'S
SLIGHTLY ELEVATED CHANGE THE
MATERIAL SO YOU ACTUALLY SEE
THAT YOU'RE COMING TO A
DIFFERENT SPOT ON THE SITE AND
THEN WE'VE ALLOWED FOR SOME
CLOSURES OF THAT WITH SOME
OF THE INTERSECTIONS AND
INTERMINGLING OF THE ROADS THAT
WE HAVE CURRENTLY THERE.
FORECLOSURE DOESN'T SEEM LIKE
IT'S AN OPPORTUNITY FOR THE
EASEMENT ACCESS FOR FIRE ACCESS
BUT WE CERTAINLY WANT TO TREAT
THIS AS A DIFFERENT SPACE SO
THAT ISN'T USED ALL THE TIME
FOR ACCESS.
I WAS GOING TO WAIT UNTIL THE
END BUT I ASKED COMMISSIONER
GESHE IF I COULD FOLLOW UP ON
THIS QUESTION THAT YOU RAISED.
SO CAN YOU TALK A LITTLE BIT
MORE ABOUT THE RAISED STREET
BECAUSE YOU SAY SLIGHTLY AND I
WOULD ADVOCATE FOR MORE THAN
SLIGHTLY SO THAT THERE IS A
MATERIAL DIFFERENCE IN A CAR
FROM THE ENTERING THAT SECTION
SO THAT THEY KNOW THAT THEY'RE
NOW ENTERING A PEDESTRIAN
SECTION, NOT A SECTION THAT IS
MADE FOR CARS.
AND I ONLY MAKE THIS POINT
BECAUSE AS A PEDESTRIAN AS A
BIKER I AM OFTEN TREATED AS AN
OBJECT TO BE REMOVED FROM THE
VEHICULAR TRANSIT SPACE SO CARS
TEND TO GET UPSET THAT I'M NOT
WHERE THE CAR IS.
AND SO I THINK OUR CONCERN IS
LARGELY THAT A CAR ENTERING
THAT SPACE RECOGNIZES THAT THEY
ARE ENTERING A NEW SPACE, A
SPACE THAT IS NOT DESIGNED FOR
THEM BUT IS INSTEAD DESIGNED
FOR A BIKE OR A PEDESTRIAN OR
MORE IMPORTANTLY A KID.
AND SO THEY HAVE TO HAVE
CAUTION.
SO I RECOGNIZE THAT YOU'RE
SAYING YOU CAN'T USE BOLLARDS
BECAUSE YOU CAN'T PUT A FOOTING
BECAUSE YOU HAVE AN EASEMENT
THAT IS UNDERGROUND BUT YOU CAN
PUT IN SPEED BARRIERS.
YOU CAN RAISE THAT THAT STREET
TO MAKE IT FEEL UNCOMFORTABLE
TO A CAR THAT IS TRAVERSING
THROUGH.
>> ABSOLUTELY.
I'M GOING TO USE SOME TERMS
THAT YOU USE THAT I THINK OUR
TRANSPORTATION ENGINEERS
WOULDN'T BE EXCITED ABOUT BUT
IT'S REALLY A SPACE WE'RE
TRYING TO MAKE A CAR
UNCOMFORTABLE SO WE'RE WE'RE
TAKING THE ENDS OF IT WHERE THE
PEDESTRIAN CROSSWALKS ARE THAT
GO FROM IN OR ACROSS THAT MAIN
STREET ON HAND AND WE'RE
LIFTING IT SO THAT THE SURFACE
LEVEL OF THAT AREA MEETS THE
PLAZA AND THE AREA AND SPACE
AROUND A FOUR AND FIVE THERE'S
NO CURB SO AS A VEHICLE YOU'RE
YOU'RE YOU'RE RAISING AN
ELEVATION.
YOU'RE CHANGING YOUR MATERIAL
AND YOU'RE DRIVING WITH
SOMETHING THAT DOESN'T HAVE THE
LINEAR CURVES CURB CURVING I
SHOULD SAY.
BUT WE DO HAVE SOME MARKERS
THAT ARE GOING TO GO DOWN AND
KIND OF DELINEATE THAT SO THAT
THEY DON'T VEER FROM IT AND
THEN EACH ONE AMPLIFIED WITH
THE CROSSWALK CROSSING PAINTING
AND SO ON IT WOULD BE ELEVATED
BASICALLY AN ELEVATION OF WHAT
THE GUTTER PAN OF THE CURVE IS
TO THE TOP OF THE CURVE.
>> SO ABOUT SIX INCHES AND THAT
GOES LINEAR ALL THE WAY FROM
THE ENTRY TO THE EXIT FROM THE
CROSSWALK TO THE EAST TO THE
CROSSWALK ON THE WEST AND SO
THAT'S WITH SOMETHING LIKE
SEVEN, EIGHT, NINE THE
NORTHWEST CORNER TO THE EDGE
OF A FOUR AND THEN IT WOULD
HAVE PEDESTRIAN BOLLARDS JUST
SO PEDESTRIANS KNOW THAT
SOMETIMES IT'S BUT BUT THEY'RE
NOT LIKE I DON'T KNOW HOW TO
DESCRIBE THEM.
YEAH.
THEY'RE JUST THEY DON'T HAVE A
FOOTING.
THEY ARE NOT GROUNDED AT
EIGHTEEN INCHES OF CONCRETE TO
DEFEAT A CAR.
RIGHT.
SO IT WOULD BE UNCOMFORTABLE AS
A DRIVER YOU DON'T HAVE THE
LINEAR CURBING MARKING YOUR
SPACE, YOUR ELEVATED YOURSELF
AND YOU'RE IN A SPACE WHERE
THERE'S GOING TO BE PEDESTRIANS
.
ALL RIGHT.
THANK YOU FOR THAT RESPONSIVITY
.
OTHER TEAM MEMBERS CAN RESPOND
TO MR. GARBER'S QUESTIONS.
WE WOULD APPRECIATE IT.
THANKS.
HI.
HEY, JEFF HOPPMAN HERE TO TALK
ABOUT PARKING SINCE WORK FROM
HOME I THINK MONDAYS AND
FRIDAYS BECOME THE LONG
WEEKEND.
SO IF YOU CHOSE ANY DAY TO NOT
FIND CARS AT SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN
IT WOULD BE A FRIDAY.
SHOULD HAVE BEEN THERE TODAY A
LOT IS NOT FULL BECAUSE U OF M
STILL CONTINUES TO ALTERNATE
WHEN PEOPLE COME IN AND WHEN
PEOPLE COME OUT.
BUT I WOULD SAY TODAY A LOT WAS
PROBABLY EASILY HALF FULL.
I WAS TEMPTED TO TAKE A PHOTO
OF IT JUST BECAUSE IT'S FILLING
UP MORE AND MORE AND MORE AS
PEOPLE ARE COMING BACK TO THE
OFFICE.
SO THERE'S DEFINITELY THAT
DEMAND FOR PARKING AND IT'S
INCREASING BUT MONDAYS AND
FRIDAYS ACCOUNTS CAN BE
DIFFERENT TUESDAY, WEDNESDAY,
THURSDAY YOU HAVE A HIGHER
ACCOUNT.
DOES THAT ANSWER YOUR QUESTION,
MR. THANK YOU.
OK, AND THEN THE THIRTY CONDOS
I JUST I DON'T KNOW IF IT WAS
IN THE MOST RECENT REPORTS OR
NOT BUT WE DID WORK WITH DR.
STULTS ABOUT WHAT TO DO THERE.
SHE ASKED US IF WE COULD JUST
GO ALL ELECTRIC.
WE HAD SOME DISCUSSIONS ABOUT
WHAT DOES THE MARKET REALLY
DEMAND.
RIGHT.
WE DIDN'T WANT TO FIND
OURSELVES GOING ALL ELECTRIC
AND THEN NOBODY WANTS TO
BUY
THESE CONDOS SO BUT WE AGREED
WITH HER WAS WE'LL MAKE IT SO
YOU CAN HAVE A CHOICE BOTH YOU
WANT TO GO ALL ELECTRIC BY ALL
MEANS.
THAT'S GREAT.
YOU'D RATHER HAVE GAS THAT
OPTION WILL BE AVAILABLE.
BUT WE OBVIOUSLY HAVE THE
ABILITY TO GO ALL ELECTRIC AND
AS YOU KNOW ALREADY ALL
ELECTRIC ON THE OTHER NINE
HUNDRED AND SEVENTY UNITS
THROUGHOUT THE COMPLEX MIGHT BE
YEAH.
JEREMIAH THOMAS CRAWFORD HOYING
SPEAKING TO HOTEL RESTAURANT
USES I THINK IN KEEPING WITH
THE THEME OF CONSUMER CHOICE
RELATING TO THE CONDOS ARE ARE
MARKET RESEARCH SUGGESTED
RESTAURANTS STILL LARGELY
PREFER TO BE ABLE TO COOK WITH
GAS AND OUR EXPECTATION IS THAT
RESTAURANTS WILL LIKELY ELECT
GAS IN THE DISTRICT AS IT
RELATES TO THE HOTEL MOST
OF OUR HOTEL USES THROUGHOUT
THE PORTFOLIO THAT WE HAVE ARE
THE COMMON AREAS ARE IN FACT
HEATED WITH ELECTRIC.
THAT IS A FREQUENT CHOICE AS IT
RELATES TO THE HOTEL USAGE.
GAS USE FOR HOTEL WOULD LARGELY
BE DEDICATED TO THINGS LIKE
GENERATORS AND AGAIN IF THERE
WAS A CLASS A RESTAURANT
ASSOCIATED WITH THE HOTEL THEN
WE WOULD EXPECT THERE TO BE
SOME GAS USAGE THERE.
BUT THOSE GAS USAGES WOULD
LARGELY BE RELATED TO COOKING
OR NOT TO HEATING AND THAT'S
TRUE THROUGHOUT THE DEVELOPMENT
OF LARGE NOT JUST THE
MULTIFAMILY AND NOT JUST THE
CONDO.
ARE YOU THE DEVELOPER OF THE
HOTEL OR ARE YOU GETTING A SUB
DEVELOPER?
>> SO WE ARE A LITTLE UNIQUE
THAT WE DEVELOP A HOTEL AS WELL
AS THE REST OF THE DEVELOPMENT.
WE WILL NOT MANAGE THE HOTEL
AND SO THERE WILL BE SOME
INFLUENCE FROM A THIRD PARTY
MANAGEMENT COMPANY AS FAR AS
SOME CHOICES.
BUT YEAH, WE WILL BE DEVELOPING
THE HOTEL AS WELL AND OUR
EXPECTATION WOULD BE THAT THE
HOTEL WILL BE COMMON AREAS WILL
BE ELECTRICAL FROM A HEATING
AND COOLING PERSPECTIVE AND
THEN THAT AGAIN GAS USAGE FOR
COOKING PRIMARILY AND FOR
GENERATOR BACKUPS.
THANKS.
I THINK THAT IS ALL OF MR.
HARPER'S QUESTIONS.
COMMISSIONER.
OK, YOU MAY ASK A DIRECT
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT
WELL, I DON'T EVEN KNOW IF THIS
ISN'T ACTUALLY A QUESTION.
>> IT'S MORE OF A STATEMENT.
>> I THINK AS PEOPLE IN THE
DEVELOPMENT INDUSTRY AND
PLANNING INDUSTRY OUR
RESPONSIBILITY TO SET A TONE
AND PUSH THINGS FORWARD AND I
THINK THAT SO JUST NOW I WORK
FOR THE DEVELOPMENT TEAM
VIRIDIAN WE ARE ALL ELECTRIC.
WE'RE PUTTING IN INDUCTION INTO
OUR HOMES.
>> PEOPLE LOVE IT.
I MEAN THERE HAVE SOME PEOPLE
THAT ARE LIKE OH I'VE HAD GAS
FOREVER AND THERE'S NO WAY I
COULD AND THEY THEY LOVE IT.
SO I THINK LIKE OBVIOUSLY WHAT
YOU'RE GOING TO DO WE CAN'T
FORCE YOU TO DO IT.
BUT LIKE I THINK EVEN IF YOU
DON'T GIVE PEOPLE A CHOICE AND
YOU JUST PUT IN AN INDUCTION
COOKTOP OR ARRANGE LIKE I DON'T
THINK THAT THAT'S GOING TO COST
YOU A SALE.
SO JUST THINK ABOUT THAT
RESTAURANTS LIKE I HAVE NO IDEA
LIKE I I'VE HEARD THAT IN A LOT
OF COMMERCIAL KITCHENS THEY'RE
STARTING TO MOVE TOWARDS
INDUCTION WHICH WOULD BE
AMAZING.
BUT AGAIN, I'M NOT HERE TO TELL
YOU WHAT TO DO.
I'M JUST HERE TO TELL YOU WHAT
I'M HEARING AND SEEING AND
EXPERIENCING AND ANYTHING WE
CAN DO TO YOU KNOW, LIKE PUSH
TOWARDS ELECTRIC INDUCTION
RATHER THAN GAS I THINK IS THE
WAY WE NEED TO BE GOING.
SO THAT'S MICHAEL BUCKSKIN.
>> ANY OTHER COMMISSIONERS
COMMISSIONER WETHERBEE?
I THINK JUST TO PIGGYBACK ON
THAT YOU THROW IN AN INDUCTION
ARGA AND A FREE LIKE YOU SAY
AND I'M IN SO I THINK I THINK
YOU'RE NOT GOING TO LOSE THE
HIGH END MARKET BECAUSE YOU
HAVE GAS APPLIANCES BECAUSE
THEY'RE KIND YOU KNOW IT'S LIKE
MARBLED OR GRANITE COUNTERTOPS.
>> YOU KNOW, THEY GET DATED
FAIRLY QUICKLY BUT I DO
APPRECIATE THE WORK ON THE
LANDSCAPING AND THE LANDSCAPE
MODIFICATION AND I I HAVE BEEN
HEARING, YOU KNOW, LITTLE THE
DEVIL OR THE ANGEL ON MY
SHOULDER HAVE LIKE WE MAKE
THESE PROCESSES REALLY LONG AND
THAT'S JUST ADDING COST TO ALL
THESE PROJECTS AND THIS PROJECT
HAS A LOT OF AFFORDABLE HOUSING
AND A LOT OF HOUSING IN GENERAL
AND IT IS DOING A LOT OF THE
THINGS THAT WE WANT AND RIGHT
NOW IT IS A SEA OF PARKING
EMPTY OR FALL AND THAT'S NOT
GREAT ESPECIALLY KNOWING THAT
UNIVERSITY IS MOVING OUT
OF AUTO NOW THAT'S YOU KNOW, WE
WANT THIS SPOT TO BE ENERGIZED
.
>> WE WANT PEOPLE THERE AND WE
WANT PEOPLE IN IT RIGHT NOW.
IT'S NOT GOING TO BE LIKE THAT
IF THINGS DON'T CHANGE AND AND
I THINK IT'S A REALLY IMPORTANT
PLACE TO HAVE A LOT OF PEOPLE I
THINK IT'S A GOOD SPOT TO HAVE
A LOT OF PEOPLE.
>> SO I REALLY APPRECIATE YOUR
WORK AND YOUR KIND OF WORKING
WITH US AS WE WORK THROUGH THIS
KIND OF NEWS ON AND YOU KNOW
WHAT?
I LOVE IT IF YOU CAME WITH LESS
PARKING.
ABSOLUTELY.
AND MAYBE THAT WILL BE TRUE IN
THE FUTURE.
BUT I THINK WE HAVE TO RESPOND
TO YOUR NEEDS TO GET THIS BUILT
AND THOSE ARE THOSE
REQUIREMENTS ARE DEFINITELY
FOLLOWING THEIR LAGGING BEHIND
WHAT WE WOULD ALL HOPE FOR.
>> SO LET'S SEE THERE WAS THE
PEDESTRIAN CROSSING AT GROVE
STREET.
>> I REALLY APPRECIATE I'M NOT
SURE IF A IF A ROUNDABOUT WOULD
BE GOOD THERE BECAUSE I THINK
ROUNDABOUTS ARE KIND
OF DIFFICULT FOR PEDESTRIANS
AND I THINK THAT I PERSONALLY
DON'T CARE IF THE CARS HAVE TO
STOP AT A DIFFERENT LIGHT.
>> I THINK THE WE APPROVED
PROJECT DOWN THE ROAD THERE WAS
NO PEDESTRIAN CROSSING.
>> WE WERE ACTUALLY WE HAD
ASKED THAT IT SOMETHING BE PUT
IN THE PLANNING COMMISSION AT
THE TIME THERE WAS NOT AND YES,
THE LAST WEEK WE WERE DRIVING
DOWN AND WE SAW A FAMILY
RUNNING ACROSS THE STREET AND
IT FELT VERY MUCH LIKE NOT WHAT
WE WANT.
>> AND SO SO I REALLY
APPRECIATE THE IDEA OF HAVING
SOME SORT OF PEDESTRIAN
INFRASTRUCTURE AT THAT AT THAT
AREA BECAUSE AGAIN YOUR HOPE IS
THAT THERE'S GOING TO BE A LOT
OF PEOPLE AND THAT THEY'RE
GOING TO BE CROSSING THE STREET
TO GET THE BUS OR WHATEVER.
>> SO I DO APPRECIATE THAT AND
I THINK THAT'S PRETTY MUCH WHAT
I HAVE TO SAY.
I'M EXCITED ABOUT SEEING THIS
PROJECT HAPPEN.
THANK YOU, COMMISSIONER
WETHERBEE.
COMMISSIONER ADAMS, DO YOU HAVE
ANYTHING OK, SO WITH THAT I'LL
JUST GIVE YOU A COUPLE THOUGHTS
THAT I HAD.
SO FIRST UP, I WANT TO SAY
THANKS FOR THE TRAFFIC LIGHT IF
WE CAN GO BACK TO THAT SLIDE.
I APPRECIATE IT THAT THAT YOU
TOOK THAT FEEDBACK INTO
CONSIDERATION AS WELL AS THE
PRESENCE OF MOVING THE BUS STOP
TO THE SOUTH SIDE OF STATE SO
THAT PEOPLE COULD ACCESS THE
TWO OF THEM A LOT.
THAT'S AT THE RASFF CENTER
THERE.
>> SO I THINK THAT'S GOING TO
BE A HUGE ADDITION.
IT SOUNDS LIKE YOU ADDED THREE
NEW CROSSINGS.
IS THAT CORRECT?
THROUGHOUT THE SITE THAT I GET
THAT COUNT RIGHT.
>> SO THE TWO CROSSINGS GO DOWN
SOUTH STATE STREET.
OK, SO TWO THERE AND THEN WE
ADDED TWO CROSSINGS ON
BOARDWALK EACH OF OUR
INTERSECTIONS THERE AND THEN WE
CONTINUE TO HAVE THE
INTERSECTIONS AND CROSSINGS
THROUGHOUT INTERNAL TO THE SITE
.
SO I WANTED TO SAY THANK YOU
FOR HEARING US THERE WE TALKED
ABOUT CLOSING A MAIN STREET
JUST AGAIN WANT TO SAY IF YOU
YOU CAN'T DO BOLLARDS THAT ARE
ANCHORED BUT YOU CAN DO
BARRIERS THAT YOU CAN ROLL OUT
AND SORT OF KEEP THAT JUST
BEING MINDFUL OF KIDS WITH CARS
AND ESPECIALLY THOSE VEHICULAR
VEHICLES GET LARGER.
THE SIGHT LINES ARE SHORTER SO
THEREFORE THEY'RE NOT ABLE TO
SEE OR ARE THERE LONGER I GUESS
FROM THE VISION OF THE DRIVERS
AND THEY CAN'T SEE A KID THAT'S
CLOSE AND GIVEN THAT THAT'S
GOING TO BE A PEDESTRIAN
FRIENDLY SPACE, KIDS DARTING
OUT INTO THAT TRAFFIC JUST
WHATEVER YOU CAN CONTINUE TO DO
TO IMPROVE THAT, IT'S JUST
SOMETHING THAT I WOULD
APPRECIATE AS A POTENTIAL USER
OF THIS SITE YUVA STUFF I THINK
WE COVERED .
BUT I JUST WANTED TO NOTE THAT
THE REASON WHY WE'RE DEALING
WITH THIS IS BECAUSE THESE ARE
NOT CITIES STREETS AND IT'S THE
INTERIOR OF A SINGLE SITE WHICH
IS LARGELY TREATED LIKE A
PARKING LOT.
SO I WONDER IF MANAGER KELLY
COULD JUST MAKE A NOTE FOR LRC
FOR US TO ADDRESS THIS BECAUSE
THIS FEELS LIKE A MISS ON OUR
PART WITH THE TAXI ONE AND I
RECOGNIZE THAT THIS SITE IS
UNIQUE GIVEN THE SIZE OF THE
SITE.
I KNOW WE HAD TO SPEND A LOT
OF TIME ON THE MASSING OF THE
BUILDINGS AND THE STREETSCAPE
AND HOW THAT ALL WORKED AND
THAT TOOK A LOT OF BACK AND
FORTH AND WE DO APPRECIATE THE
PETITIONERS DUE DILIGENCE WITH
US AS WE ROLL OUT THIS NEW
DISTRICT.
BUT HERE IS ANOTHER THING THAT
HAS COME TO LIGHT THAT I THINK
WE MAY WANT TO ADDRESS SO THAT
WE DON'T HAVE THIS THE COUNT
OF THE TREES ON ALL OF THE
PLANTS THAT I BEFORE ME ARE NOT
CORRECT.
SO THERE'S THE TWO HUNDRED AND
THIRTY SEVEN THAT'S REFERENCED
IN THE STAFF REPORT BUT ON THE
SLIDE WHERE YOU COUNT THAT IT'S
IT'S NOT TWO HUNDRED AND THIRTY
SEVEN SO SOME TREES ARE MISSING
ON WHAT YOU PRESENT IT TO US
BUT IT'S PROBABLY PRESENT ON
THE SITE PLANT WHICH IS
COMPLETELY CAN I EXPLAIN YOU
CAN YEAH I WASN'T HOLDING IT
AGAINST YOU.
I WAS JUST NOTING FOR THOSE WHO
ARE COUNTING ALONGSIDE YEAH.
I AM WORKING WITH THE MOST
CURRENT INFORMATION THAT HASN'T
BEEN SUBMITTED TO THE CITY.
IT'S BASED ON THE
COMMUNICATIONS WE HAD WE DID
HAVE A NUMBER OF TREES THAT WE
WERE SHOWING YOU'LL YOU'LL KNOW
THAT GROVE STREET
RELOCATING
THAT ENTRANCE ACROSS THE STREET
AND WE HAD A NUMBER OF TREES
THAT WERE PLANTED PROPOSED TO
BE PLANTED OVER THERE AND WE'RE
TAKING THOSE AND MOVING TO THAT
SITE PLAN AND NOT INCLUDING
THEM ON THE SITE PLAN.
>> SO THERE'S ABOUT FIFTY TREES
MISSING BETWEEN THOSE TWO
NUMBERS.
THE OTHER THING THAT I JUST
WANT TO CALL ATTENTION TO AND
THIS IS JUST BECAUSE WE
ACTUALLY READ WHAT YOU PRESENT
TO US THERE ARE DIFFERENT
ACCOUNTS OF THE NUMBER
OF BUILDINGS IN ONE PLACE IT'S
FOURTEEN AND ONE PLACE IT IS
FIFTEEN.
IN ANOTHER PLACE IT IS SIXTEEN
AND ANOTHER PLACE IT IS
SEVENTEEN.
SO WE ARE SOMEWHERE BETWEEN
FOURTEEN AND SEVENTEEN
BUILDINGS.
YOU PRESENT IT TO US AND SAID
YOU ARE REPRESENTING SIXTEEN
BUILDINGS.
OUR STAFF REPORT NOTES
SOMEWHERE BETWEEN 15 AND 17 SO
I'M NOT SURE IF I JUST SAW
SOMETHING AND I JUST
OVERCOUNTED BUT IN THE EVENT
THAT THESE NUMBERS ARE NOT
CORRECT COULD WE MAYBE FIGURE
OUT HOW MANY BUILDINGS ARE
COMING GO AHEAD PLAN OR DUILIO
I WAS JUST GOING TO TAKE MOST
OF THE BLAME FOR THAT.
I DIDN'T WANT TO BLAME ANYONE.
I JUST WANTED TO NOTE THAT THE
NUMBERS WERE INCORRECT.
I WILL I WILL SAY THOUGH THAT
WHEN YOU LOOK HERE AT THIS
FOOTPRINT YOU WILL JUST SEE I
THINK AS ONE EXAMPLE YOU'LL SEE
B1 AND B2 BUT TWO OF THE WINGS
ARE I THINK CONSIDERED SEPARATE
BUILDINGS OF B1.
IT KIND OF THERE ARE ADJACENT
BUILDINGS.
SURE.
IF I MIGHT YOU MAY IF AND THE
NUMBER THAT I USE I INCLUDE
SEVEN SEVEN SEVEN AND SEVEN
EIGHT NINE I SEE AND I I WORK
WITH ENGINEERS ALL DAY AND ONE
OF THE DIFFERENTIATIONS IS
WHERE THE FIREWALL IS SO LIKE
THE PARKING STRUCTURE ON THIS
PLAN LOOKS LIKE IT'S PART
OF THE B SERIES OF BUILDINGS.
I COUNT THAT SEPARATELY.
OK, SO IF YOU ASK A PLANNER, AN
ENGINEER OR SOMEBODY THAT'S
BUILDING I MEAN YOU'RE SETTING
US UP FOR A JOKE, OK?
THEY WALK INTO A BAR AND THEY
ASK WHAT IS A BUILDING?
OK, ANY OTHER COMMENTS FROM THE
COMMISSION?
>> ALL RIGHT WITH THAT I WILL I
DON'T KNOW I DON'T WANT TO READ
THE MOTION.
THE MOTION IS REALLY LONG.
SO CAN WE MOVE TO A ROLL CALL
VOTE PLAN OR KELLY I MEAN
EXCUSE ME MANAGER KELLY.
SURE.
ON THE MOTION AS PRESENTED
COMMISSIONER WISCH YES.
COMMISSIONER HAMMERSCHMIDT.
YES, COUNCILMAN REDISH.
YES.
COMMISSIONER WEATHERBEE.
AND COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
YES.
>> YES.
AND COMMISSIONER ADAMS.
THAT CARRIES THANK YOU AND GOOD
>> YES.
LUCK TO YOU.
THAT CARRIES THANK YOU AND GOOD
WE MOVE NOW TO ITEM NUMBER NINE
LUCK TO YOU.
REGULAR BUSINESS THERE IS NONE
WE MOVE NOW TO ITEM NUMBER NINE
WE MOVE TO ITEM NUMBER TEN
REGULAR BUSINESS THERE IS NONE
COMMISSIONER.
WE MOVE TO ITEM NUMBER TEN
>> WHY SHOULD WE ALLOW CHARLIE
COMMISSIONER.
TO READ?
>> WHY SHOULD WE ALLOW CHARLIE
OH, I THOUGHT HE LEFT.
TO READ?
HE LEFT.
OH, I THOUGHT HE LEFT.
OH, OK.
HE LEFT.
I WAS NOT AWARE OF YOU THAT I
OH, OK.
SHALL PAUSE.
I WAS NOT AWARE OF YOU THAT I
THANK YOU FOR YOUR CAUTION.
SHALL PAUSE.
I THOUGHT HE DID TOO.
THANK YOU FOR YOUR CAUTION.
THAT MIGHT BE MY
I THOUGHT HE DID TOO.
MISUNDERSTANDING BUT WE'LL DO A
THAT MIGHT BE MY
LAP OK THAT'S OK.
MISUNDERSTANDING BUT WE'LL DO A
>> WE SHALL WAIT YOU.
LAP OK THAT'S OK.
THANK YOU.
>> WE SHALL WAIT YOU.
GOOD LUCK WITH YOUR CONDITION
.
I JUST WANT TO ALTHOUGH SHE
STEPPED OUT OF THE ROOM MAYBE
SHE CAN HEAR MY VOICE PLAYER
LEO HAS DONE AN AMAZING AMOUNT
OF CORRALLING AND INTERNAL
MEETINGS EMERGENCY OR OTHERWISE
TO GET THIS TO YOUR TABLE THIS
EVENING AND I JUST WANTED TO
EXPRESS MY SINCERE GRATITUDE
FOR HER EXTRA EFFORT.
AS SHE SAID, IT KIND OF IS LIKE
I'VE PLANNED STAPLED TOGETHER
SO THEY'RE THERE WERE A LOT
OF MEETINGS LATE LAST WEEK AND
I JUST COMMEND HER FOR BRINGING
TOGETHER SO MANY DISPARATE
REVIEWERS TO BOIL THESE
CONDITIONS DOWN TO WHAT YOU SAW
IN FRONT OF YOU THIS EVENING.
WE JOIN YOUR PRAISE.
THANK YOU.
PLAN ARCOLEO YOU'RE OUT OF THE
ROOM.
I SAID NICE THINGS ABOUT ALL
RIGHT.
I PROMISE.
GOING BACK TO THE AGENDA ITEM
NUMBER NINE REGULAR BUSINESS
THERE IS NONE ITEM NUMBER TEN
OTHER BUSINESS THERE IS NONE.
WHICH BRINGS US TO ITEM NUMBER
ELEVEN PUBLIC COMMENT.
THIS IS A SECOND OPPORTUNITY
FOR INDIVIDUALS TO SPEAK UP TO
THREE MINUTES ON ANY ISSUE.
WE WILL FIRST HEAR FROM THOSE
WHO ARE PRESENT THEN WE WILL
TURN TO REMOTE PARTICIPANTS TO
SPEAK REMOTELY.
PRESS STAR NINE IFONE PHONE OR
USE THE RACE HAND FEATURE IN
ZOOME FOR PHONE ACCESS CALL
EIGHT SEVEN SEVEN EIGHT FIVE
THREE FIVE TO FOUR SEVEN AND
THEN INTER MEETING ID NINE
SEVEN SEVEN SIX SIX THREE FOUR
ONE TWO TWO SIX CITY STAFF
IDENTIFY CALLERS BY THE LAST
THREE DIGITS OF THE PHONE
NUMBERS OR BY NAME FOR RESUME
USERS YOU WILL HEAR AN
ANNOUNCEMENT WHEN IT'S YOUR
TURN TO SPEAK PLEASE ENSURE
THAT YOU ARE IN A QUIET AREA
AND MUTE ANY BACKGROUND NOISE
FOR ALL PARTICIPANTS WHETHER IN
THE CHAMBER OR ON ZUNE.
PLEASE STATE YOUR NAME AND
ADDRESS AT THE BEGINNING
OF YOUR COMMENTS.
IS THERE ANYONE PRESENT WHO
WOULD LIKE TO SPEAK AT THIS
TIME
SEEING NO ONE PLANNER?
KELLY DO WE HAVE ANY REMOTE
EXCUSE ME MANAGER DO WE HAVE
ANY REMOTE PARTICIPANTS?
>> THERE ARE NO REMOTE AND
RAISED NO.
ALL RIGHT.
I WILL CLOSE THE PUBLIC COMMENT
THAT TAKES US TO ITEM NUMBER
TWELVE COMMISSION PROPOSED
BUSINESS.
>> IS THERE ANY SAYING NONE?
I WILL ENTERTAIN A MOTION FOR
ADJOURNMENT MOVE BY
COMMISSIONER ADAMS SECONDED BY
COUNCIL MEMBER DISH ALL THOSE
IN FAVOR I SUPPOSE WE ARE
ADJOURNED